docs/cli/fetch.md, before:

---
id: fetch
title: pnpm fetch
---

Fetch packages from a lockfile into virtual store, package manifest is ignored.

## Usage scenario

This command is specifically designed to boost building a docker image.

You may have read the [official guide] to writing a Dockerfile for a Node.js
app, if you didn't read it yet, you may want to read it first.

From that guide, we learn to write an optimized Dockerfile for projects using
pnpm, which shall look like

```Dockerfile
FROM node:14

RUN curl -f https://get.pnpm.io/v6.16.js | node - add --global pnpm

# Files required by pnpm install
COPY .npmrc package.json pnpm-lock.yaml .pnpmfile.cjs ./

RUN pnpm install --frozen-lockfile --prod

# Bundle app source
COPY . .

EXPOSE 8080
CMD [ "node", "server.js" ]
```

As long as there is no change to `.npmrc`, `package.json`, `pnpm-lock.yaml`,
`.pnpmfile.cjs`, docker build cache is still valid up to the layer of
`RUN pnpm install --frozen-lockfile --prod`, which cost most of the time
when building a docker image.

However, modification to `package.json` may happen much more frequently than
we expected, because it does not only contain dependencies, but may also
contain the version number, scripts, and arbitrary configuration for any other
tool.

It's also hard to maintain a Dockerfile that build a monorepo project, it may
look like

```Dockerfile
FROM node:14

RUN curl -f https://get.pnpm.io/v6.16.js | node - add --global pnpm

# Files required by pnpm install
COPY .npmrc package.json pnpm-lock.yaml .pnpmfile.cjs ./

# for each sub-package, we have to add one extra step to copy its manifest
# to the right place, as docker have no way to filter out only package.json with
# single instruction
COPY packages/foo/package.json packages/foo/
COPY packages/bar/package.json packages/bar/

RUN pnpm install --frozen-lockfile --prod

# Bundle app source
COPY . .

EXPOSE 8080
CMD [ "node", "server.js" ]

```
As you can see, the Dockerfile has to be updated when you add or remove
sub-packages.

`pnpm fetch` will solve the above problem perfectly by providing the ability
to fetch package to virtual store with information only from a lockfile.

```Dockerfile
FROM node:14

RUN curl -f https://get.pnpm.io/v6.16.js | node - add --global pnpm

# pnpm fetch does require only lockfile
COPY pnpm-lock.yaml ./

RUN pnpm fetch --prod


ADD . ./
RUN pnpm install -r --offline --prod


EXPOSE 8080
CMD [ "node", "server.js" ]
```

It works for both simple project and monorepo project, `--offline` enforces
pnpm not to communicate with package registry as all needed packages shall be
already presented in the virtual store.

As long as the lockfile is not changed, the build cache is valid up to the
layer `RUN pnpm install -r --offline --prod`, which will save you much
time.



## Options

### --dev

Only development packages will be fetched

### --prod

Development packages will not be fetched



[official guide]: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/nodejs-docker-webapp/

Commit message:

Grammatical fixes for docs/cli/fetch.md (#367)
* Grammatical fixes for docs/cli/fetch.md

Small tweaks to `docs/cli/fetch.md` to tidy up the wording and reduce ambiguity. 
Thanks for the great work on pnpm!

* Update fetch.md

Change wording of explanation of the advantages of `pnpm fetch` in a Docker context.

docs/cli/fetch.md, after:

---
id: fetch
title: pnpm fetch
---

Fetch packages from a lockfile into virtual store, package manifest is ignored.

## Usage scenario

This command is specifically designed to improve building a docker image.

You may have read the [official guide] to writing a Dockerfile for a Node.js
app, if you haven't read it yet, you may want to read it first.

From that guide, we learn to write an optimized Dockerfile for projects using
pnpm, which looks like

```Dockerfile
FROM node:14

RUN curl -f https://get.pnpm.io/v6.16.js | node - add --global pnpm

# Files required by pnpm install
COPY .npmrc package.json pnpm-lock.yaml .pnpmfile.cjs ./

RUN pnpm install --frozen-lockfile --prod

# Bundle app source
COPY . .

EXPOSE 8080
CMD [ "node", "server.js" ]
```

As long as there are no changes to `.npmrc`, `package.json`, `pnpm-lock.yaml`,
`.pnpmfile.cjs`, docker build cache is still valid up to the layer of
`RUN pnpm install --frozen-lockfile --prod`, which cost most of the time
when building a docker image.

However, modification to `package.json` may happen much more frequently than
we expect, because it does not only contain dependencies, but may also
contain the version number, scripts, and arbitrary configuration for any other
tool.

It's also hard to maintain a Dockerfile that builds a monorepo project, it may
look like

```Dockerfile
FROM node:14

RUN curl -f https://get.pnpm.io/v6.16.js | node - add --global pnpm

# Files required by pnpm install
COPY .npmrc package.json pnpm-lock.yaml .pnpmfile.cjs ./

# for each sub-package, we have to add one extra step to copy its manifest
# to the right place, as docker have no way to filter out only package.json with
# single instruction
COPY packages/foo/package.json packages/foo/
COPY packages/bar/package.json packages/bar/

RUN pnpm install --frozen-lockfile --prod

# Bundle app source
COPY . .

EXPOSE 8080
CMD [ "node", "server.js" ]

```
As you can see, the Dockerfile has to be updated when you add or remove
sub-packages.

`pnpm fetch` solves the above problem perfectly by providing the ability
to load packages into the virtual store using only information from a lockfile.

```Dockerfile
FROM node:14

RUN curl -f https://get.pnpm.io/v6.16.js | node - add --global pnpm

# pnpm fetch does require only lockfile
COPY pnpm-lock.yaml ./

RUN pnpm fetch --prod


ADD . ./
RUN pnpm install -r --offline --prod


EXPOSE 8080
CMD [ "node", "server.js" ]
```

It works for both simple and monorepo projects, `--offline` enforces
pnpm not to communicate with the package registry as all needed packages are
already present in the virtual store.

As long as the lockfile is not changed, the build cache is valid up to the
layer, so `RUN pnpm install -r --offline --prod`, will save you much
time.



## Options

### --dev

Only development packages will be fetched

### --prod

Development packages will not be fetched



[official guide]: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/nodejs-docker-webapp/
