docs/cli/patch.md, before:

---
id: patch
title: "pnpm patch <pkg>"
---

Prepare a package for patching (inspired by a similar command in Yarn).

This command will cause a package to be extracted in a temporary directory intended to be editable at will.

Once you're done with your changes, run `pnpm patch-commit <path>` (with `<path>` being the temporary directory you received) to generate a patchfile and register it into your top-level manifest via the [`patchedDependencies`] field.

Usage:

```
pnpm patch <pkg name>@<version>
```

[`patchedDependencies`]: ../package_json.md#pnpmpatcheddependencies

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/0GjLqRGRbcY" title="The pnpm patch command demo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Options

### --edit-dir &lt;dir>

The package that needs to be patched will be extracted to this directory.

### --ignore-existing

Ignore existing patch files when patching.

Commit message:

docs: add note to patch command

docs/cli/patch.md, after:

---
id: patch
title: "pnpm patch <pkg>"
---

Prepare a package for patching (inspired by a similar command in Yarn).

This command will cause a package to be extracted in a temporary directory intended to be editable at will.

Once you're done with your changes, run `pnpm patch-commit <path>` (with `<path>` being the temporary directory you received) to generate a patchfile and register it into your top-level manifest via the [`patchedDependencies`] field.

Usage:

```
pnpm patch <pkg name>@<version>
```

[`patchedDependencies`]: ../package_json.md#pnpmpatcheddependencies

:::note

If you want to change the dependencies of a package, don't use patching to modify the `package.json` file of the package. For overriding dependencies, use [overrides] or a [package hook].

:::

[overrides]: ../package_json#pnpmoverrides
[package hook]: ../pnpmfile#hooksreadpackagepkg-context-pkg--promisepkg

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/0GjLqRGRbcY" title="The pnpm patch command demo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Options

### --edit-dir &lt;dir>

The package that needs to be patched will be extracted to this directory.

### --ignore-existing

Ignore existing patch files when patching.
