versioned_docs/version-6.x/pnpx-cli.md, before:

---
id: pnpx-cli
title: pnpx CLI
---

:::warning

This command is deprecated! Use [`pnpm exec`] and [`pnpm dlx`] instead.

:::

## For new users

`pnpx` (PNPm eXecute) is a command line tool that fetches a package from the
registry without installing it as a dependency, hotloads it, and runs whatever
default command binary it exposes.

For example, to use `create-react-app` anywhere to bootstrap a react app without
needing to install it under another project, you can run:

```sh
pnpx create-react-app my-project
```

This will fetch `create-react-app` from the registry and run it with the given
arguments. For more information, you may want to look at [npx] from npm, as it
offers the same interface, except it uses `npm` instead of `pnpm` under the hood.

If you just want to run a binary of a project's dependency, see [`pnpm exec`].

## For npm users

npm has a great package runner called [npx]. pnpm offers the same tool via the
`pnpx` command. The only difference is that `pnpx` uses `pnpm` for installing
packages.

[npx]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx
[`pnpm exec`]: ./cli/exec.md
[`pnpm dlx`]: ./cli/dlx.md

Commit message:

Make the differences b/w pnpx and npx when running project dependency binaries more obvious
I think it's important to note that pnpx and npx are not completely equivalent, as npx runs the binary of a project's dependency, while pnpx doesn't. This distinction can cause confusion for npm users who may assume that pnpx can be used interchangeably with npx when running binary commands of project dependencies. One specific example of this discrepancy is when the binary command name is different from the package name, as seen in this issue (https://github.com/sverweij/dependency-cruiser/issues/725). To avoid confusion, it's helpful to understand the differences between pnpx and npx when it comes to running binary commands of project dependencies.

versioned_docs/version-6.x/pnpx-cli.md, after:

---
id: pnpx-cli
title: pnpx CLI
---

:::warning

This command is deprecated! Use [`pnpm exec`] and [`pnpm dlx`] instead.

:::

## For new users

`pnpx` (PNPm eXecute) is a command line tool that fetches a package from the
registry without installing it as a dependency, hotloads it, and runs whatever
default command binary it exposes.

For example, to use `create-react-app` anywhere to bootstrap a react app without
needing to install it under another project, you can run:

```sh
pnpx create-react-app my-project
```

This will fetch `create-react-app` from the registry and run it with the given
arguments. For more information, you may want to look at [npx] from npm, as it
offers the same interface, except it uses `npm` instead of `pnpm` under the hood.

If you just want to run a binary of a project's dependency, see [`pnpm exec`].

## For npm users

npm has a great package runner called [npx]. pnpm offers the same tool via the
`pnpx` command. The only difference is that `pnpx` uses `pnpm` for installing packages. 
However, it's important to note that unlike `npx`, `pnpx` does not run binaries of project 
dependencies, you should use the [`pnpm exec`] command instead.

[npx]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx
[`pnpm exec`]: ./cli/exec.md
[`pnpm dlx`]: ./cli/dlx.md
