src/pages/community.md, before:

# Community

## Articles

- `2021-11-17`: [Replacing Lerna + Yarn with pnpm workspaces](https://www.raulmelo.dev/blog/replacing-lerna-and-yarn-with-pnpm-workspaces)
- `2021-03-22`: [How to Use pnpm in Netlify build](https://www.seancdavis.com/blog/use-pnpm-with-netlify/)
- `2020-11-23`: [Cleaner ESLint config and pnpm support and more with Nx 10.4](https://blog.nrwl.io/cleaner-eslint-config-and-pnpm-compatibility-with-nx-10-4-3f6faa3cdd19)
- `2020-09-27`: [pnpm: a space-efficient JavaScript package manager](https://medium.com/javascript-in-plain-english/what-is-pnpm-a-space-efficient-javascript-package-manager-2876b623b81d)
- `2020-07-12`: [Mono repository done right!](https://blog.ghaiklor.com/2020/07/12/mono-repository-done-right/comment-page-1/)
- `2020-06-09`: [Why we switched from Yarn to pnpm ](https://www.takeshape.io/articles/why-we-switched-from-yarn-to-pnpm/)
- `2020-06-09`: [Using pnpm with private registries in Bytesafe](https://bytesafe.dev/posts/pnpm-package-manager/)
- `2020-06-01`: [pnpm: a space-efficient JavaScript package manager](https://www.infoq.com/news/2020/06/pnpm-javascript-package-manager/?utm_campaign=infoq_content&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=feed&utm_term=Web-Development)
- `2020-03-19`: [The case for pnpm over npm or Yarn](https://medium.com/better-programming/the-case-for-pnpm-over-npm-or-yarn-2b221607119)
- `2019-12-28`: [An abbreviated history of JavaScript package managers](https://medium.com/@MattGoldwater/an-abbreviated-history-of-javascript-package-managers-f9797be7cf0e)
- `2019-05-19`: [npm vs Yarn vs pnpm: a package manager comparison](https://smddzcy.com/posts/2019-05-19/npm-vs-yarn-vs-pnpm-package-manager-comparison)
- `2019-04-03`: [I reclaimed 10GB of disk space from node_modules](https://dev.to/irreverentmike/i-reclaimed-10gb-of-disk-space-from-node-modules-oal)
- `2019-02-10`: [pnpm - fast performant replacement Of npm](https://www.zeptobook.com/pnpm-fast-performant-replacement-of-npm/)
- `2019-02-02`: [What is pnpm?](https://flaviocopes.com/pnpm/)
- `2018-06-13`: [npm, Yarn and pnpm: which package manager should you use for SharePoint framework projects?](http://www.andrewconnell.com/blog/npm-yarn-pnpm-which-package-manager-should-you-use-for-sharepoint-framework-projects)
- `2018-05-24`: [Rush ~ npm vs pnpm vs Yarn](https://rushjs.io/pages/maintainer/package_managers/)
- `2018-03-27`: [Package manager rumble](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/package-manager-rumble)
- `2018-02-01`: [Trying pnpm on the JustAnswer multi-package repository](https://www.justanswer.com/blog/engineering/pnpm-on-justanswer-multi-package-repository)
- `2017-06-12`: [Why I still don't use Yarn](https://intoli.com/blog/node-package-manager-benchmarks/)
- `2017-05-14`: [pnpm’s strictness helps to avoid silly bugs](https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/pnpms-strictness-helps-to-avoid-silly-bugs.html)
- `2017-05-01`: [Overview of differences between npm, yarn and pnpm](https://hackernoon.com/understanding-differences-between-npm-yarn-and-pnpm-31bb6b0c87b3)
- `2017-03-19`: [Why should we use pnpm?](https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/why-should-we-use-pnpm.html)

In German :de::
- `2019-10-10`: [JavaScript-Paketmanager pnpm 4 überarbeitet die Verzeichnisstruktur](https://www.heise.de/developer/meldung/JavaScript-Paketmanager-pnpm-4-ueberarbeitet-die-Verzeichnisstruktur-4550827.html)
- `2019-10-09`: [pnpm 4.0 veröffentlicht: Eine Alternative zu npm mit überarbeitetem Konzept](https://entwickler.de/online/javascript/pnpm-4-0-package-manager-579910357.html)

In French :fr::
- `2021-06-01`: [On a changé notre gestionnaire de dépendances front](https://blog.yousign.io/posts/on-a-change-notre-gestionnaire-de-dependances-front?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=blogep)
- `2021-03-19`: [Migration pnpm chez Malt](https://medium.com/nerds-malt/migration-pnpm-chez-malt-4464e5e8069c)

## Podcasts

* [Hasty Treat - How to Setup a pnpm Monorepo](https://syntax.fm/show/401/hasty-treat-how-to-setup-a-pnpm-monorepo)
* [Package Management Showdown](https://anchor.fm/opensourcedeveloperpod/episodes/Package-Management-Showdown-e4fnss)

## Videos

In English :uk::us::

- [What is pnpm](https://t.co/eYzVYjyPSl?amp=1)
- [Why I stopped using npm for pnpm And You should too!](https://youtu.be/7L7nBtaGAlM)
- [Reduce SPFX Node Modules from 50,000 files to 1,000](https://www.spjeff.com/2019/08/20/video-reduce-spfx-node-modules-from-50000-files-to-1000/)

In Russian :ru::

- [About pnpm v1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rMb4OHL9tWI&feature=youtu.be&t=2m52s)
- [npm v5, Yarn или pnpm, что круче?](https://youtu.be/TIeMLwH9SEU) - [slides](http://piterjs.org/events/16/Mike_Bashurov.pdf?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=vystupaet-maykl-bashurov--npm-v5--yarn)

In French :fr::

- [npm, Yarn et si la vérité était ailleurs?](https://youtu.be/0hq38OWt0EM) - [slides](https://speakerdeck.com/vincent_piard/npm-yarn-et-si-la-verite-etait-ailleurs) - by [@lynchmaniac](https://github.com/lynchmaniac)

In Ukrainian 🇺🇦:

- [pnpm - пакетний менеджер для Node.js](http://bit.ly/pnpm-pr-ukr-1) - by [@zkochan](https://github.com/zkochan)

## Packages

* [which-pm](https://github.com/zkochan/which-pm) - Detects what package manager was used for installation
* [gatsby-plugin-pnpm](https://github.com/Js-Brecht/gatsby-plugin-pnpm) - Provides pnpm compatible module resolvers to Webpack for Gatsby

## Toolings with pnpm support

* [rush](https://rushjs.io/)
* [changesets](https://github.com/atlassian/changesets) - A way to manage your versioning and changelogs with a focus on monorepos.
* [Nx](https://nx.dev/)
* [Renovate](https://renovateapp.com/) - Automated dependency updates, for humans
* [syncpack](https://github.com/JamieMason/syncpack)
* [handpick](https://github.com/redaxmedia/handpick) - Handpick conditional dependencies like a boss
* [Kretes](https://kretes.dev/) - A programming environment for building full-stack apps in TypeScript.
* [yarnhook](https://github.com/frontsideair/yarnhook) - yarnhook keeps your node_modules up-to-date when your yarn.lock, package-lock.json or shrinkwrap.yaml changes due to git operations like checkout, merge, rebase, pull etc.

Commit message:

Add spanish talk pnpm (#177)
* Add spanish talk pnpm

* Update community.md

src/pages/community.md, after:

# Community

## Articles

- `2021-11-17`: [Replacing Lerna + Yarn with pnpm workspaces](https://www.raulmelo.dev/blog/replacing-lerna-and-yarn-with-pnpm-workspaces)
- `2021-03-22`: [How to Use pnpm in Netlify build](https://www.seancdavis.com/blog/use-pnpm-with-netlify/)
- `2020-11-23`: [Cleaner ESLint config and pnpm support and more with Nx 10.4](https://blog.nrwl.io/cleaner-eslint-config-and-pnpm-compatibility-with-nx-10-4-3f6faa3cdd19)
- `2020-09-27`: [pnpm: a space-efficient JavaScript package manager](https://medium.com/javascript-in-plain-english/what-is-pnpm-a-space-efficient-javascript-package-manager-2876b623b81d)
- `2020-07-12`: [Mono repository done right!](https://blog.ghaiklor.com/2020/07/12/mono-repository-done-right/comment-page-1/)
- `2020-06-09`: [Why we switched from Yarn to pnpm ](https://www.takeshape.io/articles/why-we-switched-from-yarn-to-pnpm/)
- `2020-06-09`: [Using pnpm with private registries in Bytesafe](https://bytesafe.dev/posts/pnpm-package-manager/)
- `2020-06-01`: [pnpm: a space-efficient JavaScript package manager](https://www.infoq.com/news/2020/06/pnpm-javascript-package-manager/?utm_campaign=infoq_content&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=feed&utm_term=Web-Development)
- `2020-03-19`: [The case for pnpm over npm or Yarn](https://medium.com/better-programming/the-case-for-pnpm-over-npm-or-yarn-2b221607119)
- `2019-12-28`: [An abbreviated history of JavaScript package managers](https://medium.com/@MattGoldwater/an-abbreviated-history-of-javascript-package-managers-f9797be7cf0e)
- `2019-05-19`: [npm vs Yarn vs pnpm: a package manager comparison](https://smddzcy.com/posts/2019-05-19/npm-vs-yarn-vs-pnpm-package-manager-comparison)
- `2019-04-03`: [I reclaimed 10GB of disk space from node_modules](https://dev.to/irreverentmike/i-reclaimed-10gb-of-disk-space-from-node-modules-oal)
- `2019-02-10`: [pnpm - fast performant replacement Of npm](https://www.zeptobook.com/pnpm-fast-performant-replacement-of-npm/)
- `2019-02-02`: [What is pnpm?](https://flaviocopes.com/pnpm/)
- `2018-06-13`: [npm, Yarn and pnpm: which package manager should you use for SharePoint framework projects?](http://www.andrewconnell.com/blog/npm-yarn-pnpm-which-package-manager-should-you-use-for-sharepoint-framework-projects)
- `2018-05-24`: [Rush ~ npm vs pnpm vs Yarn](https://rushjs.io/pages/maintainer/package_managers/)
- `2018-03-27`: [Package manager rumble](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/package-manager-rumble)
- `2018-02-01`: [Trying pnpm on the JustAnswer multi-package repository](https://www.justanswer.com/blog/engineering/pnpm-on-justanswer-multi-package-repository)
- `2017-06-12`: [Why I still don't use Yarn](https://intoli.com/blog/node-package-manager-benchmarks/)
- `2017-05-14`: [pnpm’s strictness helps to avoid silly bugs](https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/pnpms-strictness-helps-to-avoid-silly-bugs.html)
- `2017-05-01`: [Overview of differences between npm, yarn and pnpm](https://hackernoon.com/understanding-differences-between-npm-yarn-and-pnpm-31bb6b0c87b3)
- `2017-03-19`: [Why should we use pnpm?](https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/why-should-we-use-pnpm.html)

In German :de::
- `2019-10-10`: [JavaScript-Paketmanager pnpm 4 überarbeitet die Verzeichnisstruktur](https://www.heise.de/developer/meldung/JavaScript-Paketmanager-pnpm-4-ueberarbeitet-die-Verzeichnisstruktur-4550827.html)
- `2019-10-09`: [pnpm 4.0 veröffentlicht: Eine Alternative zu npm mit überarbeitetem Konzept](https://entwickler.de/online/javascript/pnpm-4-0-package-manager-579910357.html)

In French :fr::
- `2021-06-01`: [On a changé notre gestionnaire de dépendances front](https://blog.yousign.io/posts/on-a-change-notre-gestionnaire-de-dependances-front?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=blogep)
- `2021-03-19`: [Migration pnpm chez Malt](https://medium.com/nerds-malt/migration-pnpm-chez-malt-4464e5e8069c)

## Podcasts

* [Hasty Treat - How to Setup a pnpm Monorepo](https://syntax.fm/show/401/hasty-treat-how-to-setup-a-pnpm-monorepo)
* [Package Management Showdown](https://anchor.fm/opensourcedeveloperpod/episodes/Package-Management-Showdown-e4fnss)

## Videos

In English :uk::us::

- [What is pnpm](https://t.co/eYzVYjyPSl?amp=1)
- [Why I stopped using npm for pnpm And You should too!](https://youtu.be/7L7nBtaGAlM)
- [Reduce SPFX Node Modules from 50,000 files to 1,000](https://www.spjeff.com/2019/08/20/video-reduce-spfx-node-modules-from-50000-files-to-1000/)

In Russian :ru::

- [About pnpm v1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rMb4OHL9tWI&feature=youtu.be&t=2m52s)
- [npm v5, Yarn или pnpm, что круче?](https://youtu.be/TIeMLwH9SEU) - [slides](http://piterjs.org/events/16/Mike_Bashurov.pdf?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=vystupaet-maykl-bashurov--npm-v5--yarn)

In French :fr::

- [npm, Yarn et si la vérité était ailleurs?](https://youtu.be/0hq38OWt0EM) - [slides](https://speakerdeck.com/vincent_piard/npm-yarn-et-si-la-verite-etait-ailleurs) - by [@lynchmaniac](https://github.com/lynchmaniac)

In Ukrainian 🇺🇦:

- [pnpm - пакетний менеджер для Node.js](http://bit.ly/pnpm-pr-ukr-1) - by [@zkochan](https://github.com/zkochan)

In Spanish 🇪🇸::

- [Introdución a pnpm 
](https://youtu.be/rE0_hlG0ifw?t=854) ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1x2X6EE4yf9V-5xExe1_RMXlCWcurzL1rGi9kc8COEDQ/edit?usp=sharing)) ([Demo](https://github.com/juanpicado/pnpm-workspace-example)) by [@jotadeveloper](https://github.com/juanpicado)

## Packages

* [which-pm](https://github.com/zkochan/which-pm) - Detects what package manager was used for installation
* [gatsby-plugin-pnpm](https://github.com/Js-Brecht/gatsby-plugin-pnpm) - Provides pnpm compatible module resolvers to Webpack for Gatsby

## Toolings with pnpm support

* [rush](https://rushjs.io/)
* [changesets](https://github.com/atlassian/changesets) - A way to manage your versioning and changelogs with a focus on monorepos.
* [Nx](https://nx.dev/)
* [Renovate](https://renovateapp.com/) - Automated dependency updates, for humans
* [syncpack](https://github.com/JamieMason/syncpack)
* [handpick](https://github.com/redaxmedia/handpick) - Handpick conditional dependencies like a boss
* [Kretes](https://kretes.dev/) - A programming environment for building full-stack apps in TypeScript.
* [yarnhook](https://github.com/frontsideair/yarnhook) - yarnhook keeps your node_modules up-to-date when your yarn.lock, package-lock.json or shrinkwrap.yaml changes due to git operations like checkout, merge, rebase, pull etc.
