community/articles.md, before:

---
id: articles
title: Articles
---

- `2023-08-22`: [Phantom Dependencies In Node.js And How PNPM Prevents Them](https://broadcrunch.com/technology/computing/phantom-dependencies-in-nodejs-and-how-pnpm-prevents-them/)
- `2022-09-01`: [What is pnpm & why you should try it as a frontend developer](https://javascript.plainenglish.io/what-is-pnpm-why-you-should-try-it-as-a-frontend-developer-69a3a7b34f5b)
- `2022-07-22`: [Managing a full-stack, multi-package monorepo using pnpm](https://blog.logrocket.com/managing-full-stack-monorepo-pnpm/)
- `2022-06-09`: [pnpm: Because to work more flexible we start from the bottom](https://medium.com/jobtome-engineering/pnpm-because-to-work-more-flexible-we-start-from-the-bottom-5a9c3a9c2af4)
- `2022-02-16`: [JavaScript package managers compared: npm, Yarn, or pnpm?](https://blog.logrocket.com/javascript-package-managers-compared/)
- `2022-01-18`: [A story of how we migrated to pnpm](https://divriots.com/blog/switching-to-pnpm)
- `2022-01-17`: [Yarn, npm, or pnpm?](https://www.pixelmatters.com/blog/yarn-npm-or-pnpm)
- `2021-11-17`: [Replacing Lerna + Yarn with pnpm workspaces](https://www.raulmelo.dev/blog/replacing-lerna-and-yarn-with-pnpm-workspaces)
- `2021-03-22`: [How to Use pnpm in Netlify build](https://www.seancdavis.com/blog/use-pnpm-with-netlify/)
- `2020-11-23`: [Cleaner ESLint config and pnpm support and more with Nx 10.4](https://blog.nrwl.io/cleaner-eslint-config-and-pnpm-compatibility-with-nx-10-4-3f6faa3cdd19)
- `2020-09-27`: [pnpm: a space-efficient JavaScript package manager](https://medium.com/javascript-in-plain-english/what-is-pnpm-a-space-efficient-javascript-package-manager-2876b623b81d)
- `2020-07-12`: [Mono repository done right!](https://blog.ghaiklor.com/2020/07/12/mono-repository-done-right/comment-page-1/)
- `2020-06-09`: [Why we switched from Yarn to pnpm ](https://www.takeshape.io/articles/why-we-switched-from-yarn-to-pnpm/)
- `2020-06-09`: [Using pnpm with private registries in Bytesafe](https://bytesafe.dev/posts/pnpm-package-manager/)
- `2020-06-01`: [pnpm: a space-efficient JavaScript package manager](https://www.infoq.com/news/2020/06/pnpm-javascript-package-manager/?utm_campaign=infoq_content&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=feed&utm_term=Web-Development)
- `2020-03-19`: [The case for pnpm over npm or Yarn](https://medium.com/better-programming/the-case-for-pnpm-over-npm-or-yarn-2b221607119)
- `2019-12-28`: [An abbreviated history of JavaScript package managers](https://medium.com/@MattGoldwater/an-abbreviated-history-of-javascript-package-managers-f9797be7cf0e)
- `2019-05-19`: [npm vs Yarn vs pnpm: a package manager comparison](https://smddzcy.com/posts/2019-05-19/npm-vs-yarn-vs-pnpm-package-manager-comparison)
- `2019-04-03`: [I reclaimed 10GB of disk space from node_modules](https://dev.to/irreverentmike/i-reclaimed-10gb-of-disk-space-from-node-modules-oal)
- `2019-02-10`: [pnpm - fast performant replacement Of npm](https://www.zeptobook.com/pnpm-fast-performant-replacement-of-npm/)
- `2019-02-02`: [What is pnpm?](https://flaviocopes.com/pnpm/)
- `2018-06-13`: [npm, Yarn and pnpm: which package manager should you use for SharePoint framework projects?](http://www.andrewconnell.com/blog/npm-yarn-pnpm-which-package-manager-should-you-use-for-sharepoint-framework-projects)
- `2018-05-24`: [Rush ~ npm vs pnpm vs Yarn](https://rushjs.io/pages/maintainer/package_managers/)
- `2018-03-27`: [Package manager rumble](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/package-manager-rumble)
- `2018-02-01`: [Trying pnpm on the JustAnswer multi-package repository](https://www.justanswer.com/blog/engineering/pnpm-on-justanswer-multi-package-repository)
- `2017-06-12`: [Why I still don't use Yarn](https://intoli.com/blog/node-package-manager-benchmarks/)
- `2017-05-14`: [pnpm’s strictness helps to avoid silly bugs](https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/pnpms-strictness-helps-to-avoid-silly-bugs.html)
- `2017-05-01`: [Overview of differences between npm, yarn and pnpm](https://hackernoon.com/understanding-differences-between-npm-yarn-and-pnpm-31bb6b0c87b3)
- `2017-03-19`: [Why should we use pnpm?](https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/why-should-we-use-pnpm.html)

In German:
- `2019-10-10`: [JavaScript-Paketmanager pnpm 4 überarbeitet die Verzeichnisstruktur](https://www.heise.de/developer/meldung/JavaScript-Paketmanager-pnpm-4-ueberarbeitet-die-Verzeichnisstruktur-4550827.html)
- `2019-10-09`: [pnpm 4.0 veröffentlicht: Eine Alternative zu npm mit überarbeitetem Konzept](https://entwickler.de/online/javascript/pnpm-4-0-package-manager-579910357.html)

In French:
- `2021-06-01`: [On a changé notre gestionnaire de dépendances front](https://blog.yousign.io/posts/on-a-change-notre-gestionnaire-de-dependances-front?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=blogep)
- `2021-03-19`: [Migration pnpm chez Malt](https://medium.com/nerds-malt/migration-pnpm-chez-malt-4464e5e8069c)

In Chinese:
- `2023-10-13`: [pnpm包管理的高效存储机制解析](https://juejin.cn/post/7288963210954555448)
- `2022-10-24`: [pnpm 原理解析](https://github.com/lvqq/blog/issues/60)
- `2022-01-28`: [新一代包管理工具 pnpm](https://www.qjidea.com/pnpm/)
- `2022-01-28`: [都2022年了，pnpm快到碗里来!](https://juejin.cn/post/7053340250210795557)
- `2021-12-11`: [npm/yarn的设计缺陷，以及pnpm是如何改进的](https://xingyahao.com/c/pnpm-npm-yarn.html)
- `2021-12-07`: [为什么 Vue 源码及生态仓库要迁移 pnpm?](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/0PfyRfv23aTF2sV_RY11Fw)
- `2021-08-28`: [pnpm: 最先进的包管理工具](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/5Zo576QFpdAfwXmhfTwWZQ)

In Japanese:
- `2021-12-11`: [npm/yarnの不足点とpnpmの解決法](https://engineering.meetsmore.com/entry/2021/12/06/112931)

Commit message:

feat: add article about "How to decrease deployment time by 44% with pnpm" (#550)

community/articles.md, after:

---
id: articles
title: Articles
---

- `2024-06-16`: [How to decrease deployment time by 44% with pnpm](https://shramko.dev/blog/pnpm)
- `2023-08-22`: [Phantom Dependencies In Node.js And How PNPM Prevents Them](https://broadcrunch.com/technology/computing/phantom-dependencies-in-nodejs-and-how-pnpm-prevents-them/)
- `2022-09-01`: [What is pnpm & why you should try it as a frontend developer](https://javascript.plainenglish.io/what-is-pnpm-why-you-should-try-it-as-a-frontend-developer-69a3a7b34f5b)
- `2022-07-22`: [Managing a full-stack, multi-package monorepo using pnpm](https://blog.logrocket.com/managing-full-stack-monorepo-pnpm/)
- `2022-06-09`: [pnpm: Because to work more flexible we start from the bottom](https://medium.com/jobtome-engineering/pnpm-because-to-work-more-flexible-we-start-from-the-bottom-5a9c3a9c2af4)
- `2022-02-16`: [JavaScript package managers compared: npm, Yarn, or pnpm?](https://blog.logrocket.com/javascript-package-managers-compared/)
- `2022-01-18`: [A story of how we migrated to pnpm](https://divriots.com/blog/switching-to-pnpm)
- `2022-01-17`: [Yarn, npm, or pnpm?](https://www.pixelmatters.com/blog/yarn-npm-or-pnpm)
- `2021-11-17`: [Replacing Lerna + Yarn with pnpm workspaces](https://www.raulmelo.dev/blog/replacing-lerna-and-yarn-with-pnpm-workspaces)
- `2021-03-22`: [How to Use pnpm in Netlify build](https://www.seancdavis.com/blog/use-pnpm-with-netlify/)
- `2020-11-23`: [Cleaner ESLint config and pnpm support and more with Nx 10.4](https://blog.nrwl.io/cleaner-eslint-config-and-pnpm-compatibility-with-nx-10-4-3f6faa3cdd19)
- `2020-09-27`: [pnpm: a space-efficient JavaScript package manager](https://medium.com/javascript-in-plain-english/what-is-pnpm-a-space-efficient-javascript-package-manager-2876b623b81d)
- `2020-07-12`: [Mono repository done right!](https://blog.ghaiklor.com/2020/07/12/mono-repository-done-right/comment-page-1/)
- `2020-06-09`: [Why we switched from Yarn to pnpm ](https://www.takeshape.io/articles/why-we-switched-from-yarn-to-pnpm/)
- `2020-06-09`: [Using pnpm with private registries in Bytesafe](https://bytesafe.dev/posts/pnpm-package-manager/)
- `2020-06-01`: [pnpm: a space-efficient JavaScript package manager](https://www.infoq.com/news/2020/06/pnpm-javascript-package-manager/?utm_campaign=infoq_content&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=feed&utm_term=Web-Development)
- `2020-03-19`: [The case for pnpm over npm or Yarn](https://medium.com/better-programming/the-case-for-pnpm-over-npm-or-yarn-2b221607119)
- `2019-12-28`: [An abbreviated history of JavaScript package managers](https://medium.com/@MattGoldwater/an-abbreviated-history-of-javascript-package-managers-f9797be7cf0e)
- `2019-05-19`: [npm vs Yarn vs pnpm: a package manager comparison](https://smddzcy.com/posts/2019-05-19/npm-vs-yarn-vs-pnpm-package-manager-comparison)
- `2019-04-03`: [I reclaimed 10GB of disk space from node_modules](https://dev.to/irreverentmike/i-reclaimed-10gb-of-disk-space-from-node-modules-oal)
- `2019-02-10`: [pnpm - fast performant replacement Of npm](https://www.zeptobook.com/pnpm-fast-performant-replacement-of-npm/)
- `2019-02-02`: [What is pnpm?](https://flaviocopes.com/pnpm/)
- `2018-06-13`: [npm, Yarn and pnpm: which package manager should you use for SharePoint framework projects?](http://www.andrewconnell.com/blog/npm-yarn-pnpm-which-package-manager-should-you-use-for-sharepoint-framework-projects)
- `2018-05-24`: [Rush ~ npm vs pnpm vs Yarn](https://rushjs.io/pages/maintainer/package_managers/)
- `2018-03-27`: [Package manager rumble](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/package-manager-rumble)
- `2018-02-01`: [Trying pnpm on the JustAnswer multi-package repository](https://www.justanswer.com/blog/engineering/pnpm-on-justanswer-multi-package-repository)
- `2017-06-12`: [Why I still don't use Yarn](https://intoli.com/blog/node-package-manager-benchmarks/)
- `2017-05-14`: [pnpm’s strictness helps to avoid silly bugs](https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/pnpms-strictness-helps-to-avoid-silly-bugs.html)
- `2017-05-01`: [Overview of differences between npm, yarn and pnpm](https://hackernoon.com/understanding-differences-between-npm-yarn-and-pnpm-31bb6b0c87b3)
- `2017-03-19`: [Why should we use pnpm?](https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/why-should-we-use-pnpm.html)

In German:
- `2019-10-10`: [JavaScript-Paketmanager pnpm 4 überarbeitet die Verzeichnisstruktur](https://www.heise.de/developer/meldung/JavaScript-Paketmanager-pnpm-4-ueberarbeitet-die-Verzeichnisstruktur-4550827.html)
- `2019-10-09`: [pnpm 4.0 veröffentlicht: Eine Alternative zu npm mit überarbeitetem Konzept](https://entwickler.de/online/javascript/pnpm-4-0-package-manager-579910357.html)

In French:
- `2021-06-01`: [On a changé notre gestionnaire de dépendances front](https://blog.yousign.io/posts/on-a-change-notre-gestionnaire-de-dependances-front?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=blogep)
- `2021-03-19`: [Migration pnpm chez Malt](https://medium.com/nerds-malt/migration-pnpm-chez-malt-4464e5e8069c)

In Chinese:
- `2023-10-13`: [pnpm包管理的高效存储机制解析](https://juejin.cn/post/7288963210954555448)
- `2022-10-24`: [pnpm 原理解析](https://github.com/lvqq/blog/issues/60)
- `2022-01-28`: [新一代包管理工具 pnpm](https://www.qjidea.com/pnpm/)
- `2022-01-28`: [都2022年了，pnpm快到碗里来!](https://juejin.cn/post/7053340250210795557)
- `2021-12-11`: [npm/yarn的设计缺陷，以及pnpm是如何改进的](https://xingyahao.com/c/pnpm-npm-yarn.html)
- `2021-12-07`: [为什么 Vue 源码及生态仓库要迁移 pnpm?](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/0PfyRfv23aTF2sV_RY11Fw)
- `2021-08-28`: [pnpm: 最先进的包管理工具](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/5Zo576QFpdAfwXmhfTwWZQ)

In Japanese:
- `2021-12-11`: [npm/yarnの不足点とpnpmの解決法](https://engineering.meetsmore.com/entry/2021/12/06/112931)
