community/tools.md, before:

---
id: tools
title: Tools
---

## Packages

- [gatsby-plugin-pnpm](https://github.com/Js-Brecht/gatsby-plugin-pnpm) - Provides pnpm compatible module resolvers to Webpack for Gatsby.
- [which-pm](https://github.com/zkochan/which-pm) - Detects what package manager was used for installation.

## Tools with pnpm support

<!-- alphabetical order -->

- [Bazel](https://bazel.build) (via [rules_js](https://github.com/aspect-build/rules_js)) - Google's massively scalable multi-language build tool.
- [Bit](https://bit.dev/) - A toolchain for component-driven development.
- [changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) - A way to manage your versioning and changelogs with a focus on monorepos.
- [handpick](https://github.com/redaxmedia/handpick) - Handpick conditional dependencies like a boss.
- [Kretes](https://kretes.dev/) - A programming environment for building full-stack apps in TypeScript.
- [Meterian](https://meterian.io) - Ensure your dependencies are not vulnerable, out of date, or with a license you do not want to use.
- [Nx](https://nx.dev/) - Next generation build system with first class monorepo support and powerful integrations.
- [Renovate](https://renovateapp.com/) - Automated dependency updates, for humans.
- [Rush](https://rushjs.io/) - A scalable monorepo manager for the web.
- [syncpack](https://github.com/JamieMason/syncpack) - Consistent dependency versions in large JavaScript Monorepos.
- [Turborepo](https://turborepo.org/) - A high-performance build system for JavaScript and TypeScript codebases.
- [yarnhook](https://github.com/frontsideair/yarnhook) - yarnhook keeps your node_modules up-to-date when your yarn.lock, package-lock.json or shrinkwrap.yaml changes due to git operations like checkout, merge, rebase, pull etc.

Commit message:

Add a link for Lockfile Explorer

community/tools.md, after:

---
id: tools
title: Tools
---

## Packages

- [gatsby-plugin-pnpm](https://github.com/Js-Brecht/gatsby-plugin-pnpm) - Provides pnpm compatible module resolvers to Webpack for Gatsby.
- [which-pm](https://github.com/zkochan/which-pm) - Detects what package manager was used for installation.

## Tools with pnpm support

<!-- alphabetical order -->

- [Bazel](https://bazel.build) (via [rules_js](https://github.com/aspect-build/rules_js)) - Google's massively scalable multi-language build tool.
- [Bit](https://bit.dev/) - A toolchain for component-driven development.
- [changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) - A way to manage your versioning and changelogs with a focus on monorepos.
- [handpick](https://github.com/redaxmedia/handpick) - Handpick conditional dependencies like a boss.
- [Kretes](https://kretes.dev/) - A programming environment for building full-stack apps in TypeScript.
- [Lockfile Explorer](https://lfx.rushstack.io) - A desktop app for visualizing pnpm lockfiles and troubleshooting version conflicts.
- [Meterian](https://meterian.io) - Ensure your dependencies are not vulnerable, out of date, or with a license you do not want to use.
- [Nx](https://nx.dev/) - Next generation build system with first class monorepo support and powerful integrations.
- [Renovate](https://renovateapp.com/) - Automated dependency updates, for humans.
- [Rush](https://rushjs.io/) - A scalable monorepo manager for the web.
- [syncpack](https://github.com/JamieMason/syncpack) - Consistent dependency versions in large JavaScript Monorepos.
- [Turborepo](https://turborepo.org/) - A high-performance build system for JavaScript and TypeScript codebases.
- [yarnhook](https://github.com/frontsideair/yarnhook) - yarnhook keeps your node_modules up-to-date when your yarn.lock, package-lock.json or shrinkwrap.yaml changes due to git operations like checkout, merge, rebase, pull etc.
