docs/faq.md, before:

---
id: faq
title: Frequently Asked Questions
---

## Why does my `node_modules` folder use disk space if packages are stored in a global store?

pnpm creates [hard links] from the global store to the project's `node_modules`
folders. Hard links point to the same place on the disk where the original
files are. So, for example, if you have `foo` in your project as a dependency
and it occupies 1MB of space, then it will look like it occupies 1MB of space in
the project's `node_modules` folder and the same amount of space in the global
store. However, that 1MB is *the same space* on the disk addressed from two
different locations. So in total `foo` occupies 1MB, not 2MB.

[hard links]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hard_link

For more on this subject:

* [Why do hard links seem to take the same space as the originals?](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/88423/why-do-hard-links-seem-to-take-the-same-space-as-the-originals)
* [A thread from the pnpm chat room](https://gist.github.com/zkochan/106cfef49f8476b753a9cbbf9c65aff1)
* [An issue in the pnpm repo](https://github.com/pnpm/pnpm/issues/794)

## Does it work on Windows?

Short answer: Yes.
Long answer: Using symbolic linking on Windows is problematic to say the least,
however, pnpm has a workaround. For Windows, we use [junctions] instead.

[junctions]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/fileio/hard-links-and-junctions

## But the nested `node_modules` approach is incompatible with Windows?

Early versions of npm had issues because of nesting all `node_modules` (see
[this issue]). However, pnpm does not create deep folders, it stores all packages
flatly and uses symbolic links to create the dependency tree structure.

[this issue]: https://github.com/nodejs/node-v0.x-archive/issues/6960

## What about circular symlinks?

Although pnpm uses linking to put dependencies into `node_modules` folders,
circular symlinks are avoided because parent packages are placed into the same
`node_modules` folder in which their dependencies are. So `foo`'s dependencies
are not in `foo/node_modules`, but `foo` is in `node_modules` together with its
own dependencies.

## Why have hard links at all? Why not symlink directly to the global store?

One package can have different sets of dependencies on one machine.

In project **A** `foo@1.0.0` can have a dependency resolved to `bar@1.0.0`, but
in project **B** the same dependency of `foo` might resolve to `bar@1.1.0`; so,
pnpm hard links `foo@1.0.0` to every project where it is used, in order to
create different sets of dependencies for it.

Direct symlinking to the global store would work with Node's
`--preserve-symlinks` flag, however, that approach comes with a plethora of its
own issues, so we decided to stick with hard links. For more details about why
this decision was made, see [this issue][eps-issue].

[eps-issue]: https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/issues/46

## Does pnpm work across multiple drives or filesystems?

The package store should be on the same drive and filesystem as installations,
otherwise packages will be copied, not linked. This is due to a limitation in
how hard linking works, in that a file on one filesystem cannot address a
location in another. See [Issue #712] for more details.

pnpm functions differently in the 2 cases below:

[Issue #712]: https://github.com/pnpm/pnpm/issues/712 

### Store path is specified

If the store path is specified via [the store config](configuring.md), then copying
occurs between the store and any projects that are on a different disk.

If you run `pnpm install` on disk `A`, then the pnpm store must be on disk `A`.
If the pnpm store is located on disk `B`, then all required packages will be
directly copied to the project location instead of being linked. This severely
inhibits the storage and performance benefits of pnpm.

### Store path is NOT specified

If the store path is not set, then multiple stores are created (one per drive or
filesystem).

If installation is run on disk `A`, the store will be created on `A`
`.pnpm-store` under the filesystem root.  If later the installation is run on
disk `B`, an independent store will be created on `B` at `.pnpm-store`. The
projects would still maintain the benefits of pnpm, but each drive may have
redundant packages.

## What does `pnpm` stand for?

`pnpm` stands for `performant npm`.
[@rstacruz](https://github.com/rstacruz/) came up with the name.

## `pnpm` does not work with &lt;YOUR-PROJECT-HERE>?

In most cases it means that one of the dependencies require packages not
declared in `package.json`. It is a common mistake caused by flat
`node_modules`. If this happens, this is an error in the dependency and the
dependency should be fixed. That might take time though, so pnpm supports
workarounds to make the buggy packages work.

### Solution 1

In case there are issues, you can use the [`node-linker=hoisted`] setting.
This creates a flat `node_modules` structure similar to the one created by `npm`.

[`node-linker=hoisted`]: npmrc#node-linker

### Solution 2

In the following example, a dependency does **not** have the `iterall` module in
its own list of deps.

The easiest solution to resolve missing dependencies of the buggy packages is to
**add `iterall` as a dependency to our project's `package.json`**.

You can do so, by installing it via `pnpm add iterall`, and will be
automatically added to your project's `package.json`.

```json
  "dependencies": {
    ...
    "iterall": "^1.2.2",
    ...
  }
```

### Solution 3

One of the solutions is to use [hooks](pnpmfile.md#hooks) for adding the missing
dependencies to the package's `package.json`.

An example was [Webpack Dashboard] which wasn't working with `pnpm`. It has
since been resolved such that it works with `pnpm` now.

It used to throw an error:

```console
Error: Cannot find module 'babel-traverse'
  at /node_modules/inspectpack@2.2.3/node_modules/inspectpack/lib/actions/parse
```

The problem was that `babel-traverse` was used in `inspectpack` which
was used by `webpack-dashboard`, but `babel-traverse` wasn't specified in
`inspectpack`'s `package.json`. It still worked with `npm` and `yarn` because
they create flat `node_modules`.

The solution was to create a `.pnpmfile.cjs` with the following contents:

```js
module.exports = {
  hooks: {
    readPackage: (pkg) => {
      if (pkg.name === "inspectpack") {
        pkg.dependencies['babel-traverse'] = '^6.26.0';
      }
      return pkg;
    }
  }
};
```

After creating a `.pnpmfile.cjs`, delete `pnpm-lock.yaml` only - there is no need
to delete `node_modules`, as pnpm hooks only affect module resolution. Then,
rebuild the dependencies & it should be working.

[Webpack Dashboard]: https://github.com/pnpm/pnpm/issues/1043

Commit message:

docs: regarding btrfs and containers (#425)
* docs: regarding btrfs and containers

* create new page

---------

Co-authored-by: Zoltan Kochan <z@kochan.io>

docs/faq.md, after:

---
id: faq
title: Frequently Asked Questions
---

## Why does my `node_modules` folder use disk space if packages are stored in a global store?

pnpm creates [hard links] from the global store to the project's `node_modules`
folders. Hard links point to the same place on the disk where the original
files are. So, for example, if you have `foo` in your project as a dependency
and it occupies 1MB of space, then it will look like it occupies 1MB of space in
the project's `node_modules` folder and the same amount of space in the global
store. However, that 1MB is *the same space* on the disk addressed from two
different locations. So in total `foo` occupies 1MB, not 2MB.

[hard links]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hard_link

For more on this subject:

* [Why do hard links seem to take the same space as the originals?](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/88423/why-do-hard-links-seem-to-take-the-same-space-as-the-originals)
* [A thread from the pnpm chat room](https://gist.github.com/zkochan/106cfef49f8476b753a9cbbf9c65aff1)
* [An issue in the pnpm repo](https://github.com/pnpm/pnpm/issues/794)

## Does it work on Windows?

Short answer: Yes.
Long answer: Using symbolic linking on Windows is problematic to say the least,
however, pnpm has a workaround. For Windows, we use [junctions] instead.

[junctions]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/fileio/hard-links-and-junctions

## But the nested `node_modules` approach is incompatible with Windows?

Early versions of npm had issues because of nesting all `node_modules` (see
[this issue]). However, pnpm does not create deep folders, it stores all packages
flatly and uses symbolic links to create the dependency tree structure.

[this issue]: https://github.com/nodejs/node-v0.x-archive/issues/6960

## What about circular symlinks?

Although pnpm uses linking to put dependencies into `node_modules` folders,
circular symlinks are avoided because parent packages are placed into the same
`node_modules` folder in which their dependencies are. So `foo`'s dependencies
are not in `foo/node_modules`, but `foo` is in `node_modules` together with its
own dependencies.

## Why have hard links at all? Why not symlink directly to the global store?

One package can have different sets of dependencies on one machine.

In project **A** `foo@1.0.0` can have a dependency resolved to `bar@1.0.0`, but
in project **B** the same dependency of `foo` might resolve to `bar@1.1.0`; so,
pnpm hard links `foo@1.0.0` to every project where it is used, in order to
create different sets of dependencies for it.

Direct symlinking to the global store would work with Node's
`--preserve-symlinks` flag, however, that approach comes with a plethora of its
own issues, so we decided to stick with hard links. For more details about why
this decision was made, see [this issue][eps-issue].

[eps-issue]: https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/issues/46

## Does pnpm work across different subvolumes in one Btrfs partition?

While Btrfs does not allow cross-device hardlinks between different subvolumes in a single partition, it does permit reflinks. As a result, pnpm utilizes reflinks to share data between these subvolumes.

## Does pnpm work across multiple drives or filesystems?

The package store should be on the same drive and filesystem as installations,
otherwise packages will be copied, not linked. This is due to a limitation in
how hard linking works, in that a file on one filesystem cannot address a
location in another. See [Issue #712] for more details.

pnpm functions differently in the 2 cases below:

[Issue #712]: https://github.com/pnpm/pnpm/issues/712

### Store path is specified

If the store path is specified via [the store config](configuring.md), then copying
occurs between the store and any projects that are on a different disk.

If you run `pnpm install` on disk `A`, then the pnpm store must be on disk `A`.
If the pnpm store is located on disk `B`, then all required packages will be
directly copied to the project location instead of being linked. This severely
inhibits the storage and performance benefits of pnpm.

### Store path is NOT specified

If the store path is not set, then multiple stores are created (one per drive or
filesystem).

If installation is run on disk `A`, the store will be created on `A`
`.pnpm-store` under the filesystem root.  If later the installation is run on
disk `B`, an independent store will be created on `B` at `.pnpm-store`. The
projects would still maintain the benefits of pnpm, but each drive may have
redundant packages.

## What does `pnpm` stand for?

`pnpm` stands for `performant npm`.
[@rstacruz](https://github.com/rstacruz/) came up with the name.

## `pnpm` does not work with &lt;YOUR-PROJECT-HERE>?

In most cases it means that one of the dependencies require packages not
declared in `package.json`. It is a common mistake caused by flat
`node_modules`. If this happens, this is an error in the dependency and the
dependency should be fixed. That might take time though, so pnpm supports
workarounds to make the buggy packages work.

### Solution 1

In case there are issues, you can use the [`node-linker=hoisted`] setting.
This creates a flat `node_modules` structure similar to the one created by `npm`.

[`node-linker=hoisted`]: npmrc#node-linker

### Solution 2

In the following example, a dependency does **not** have the `iterall` module in
its own list of deps.

The easiest solution to resolve missing dependencies of the buggy packages is to
**add `iterall` as a dependency to our project's `package.json`**.

You can do so, by installing it via `pnpm add iterall`, and will be
automatically added to your project's `package.json`.

```json
  "dependencies": {
    ...
    "iterall": "^1.2.2",
    ...
  }
```

### Solution 3

One of the solutions is to use [hooks](pnpmfile.md#hooks) for adding the missing
dependencies to the package's `package.json`.

An example was [Webpack Dashboard] which wasn't working with `pnpm`. It has
since been resolved such that it works with `pnpm` now.

It used to throw an error:

```console
Error: Cannot find module 'babel-traverse'
  at /node_modules/inspectpack@2.2.3/node_modules/inspectpack/lib/actions/parse
```

The problem was that `babel-traverse` was used in `inspectpack` which
was used by `webpack-dashboard`, but `babel-traverse` wasn't specified in
`inspectpack`'s `package.json`. It still worked with `npm` and `yarn` because
they create flat `node_modules`.

The solution was to create a `.pnpmfile.cjs` with the following contents:

```js
module.exports = {
  hooks: {
    readPackage: (pkg) => {
      if (pkg.name === "inspectpack") {
        pkg.dependencies['babel-traverse'] = '^6.26.0';
      }
      return pkg;
    }
  }
};
```

After creating a `.pnpmfile.cjs`, delete `pnpm-lock.yaml` only - there is no need
to delete `node_modules`, as pnpm hooks only affect module resolution. Then,
rebuild the dependencies & it should be working.

[Webpack Dashboard]: https://github.com/pnpm/pnpm/issues/1043
