docs/motivation.md, before:

---
id: motivation
title: Motivation
---

pnpm uses a content-addressable filesystem to store all files from all module directories on a disk.
When using npm or Yarn, if you have 100 projects using lodash, you will have 100 copies of lodash on disk.
With pnpm, lodash will be stored in a content-addressable storage, so:

1. If you depend on different versions of lodash, only the files that differ are added to the store.
  If lodash has 100 files, and a new version has a change only in one of those files,
  `pnpm update` will only add 1 new file to the storage.
1. All the files are saved in a single place on the disk. When packages are installed, their files are hard-linked
  from that single place consuming no additional disk space.

As a result, you save gigabytes of space on your disk and you have a lot faster installations!
If you'd like more details about the unique `node_modules` structure that pnpm creates and
why it works fine with the Node.js ecosystem, read this small article: [Flat node_modules is not the only way](/blog/2020/05/27/flat-node-modules-is-not-the-only-way).

Commit message:

docs(*): cleanup and rewrite for v5 (#88)
* docs: rewrite package store documentation for pnpm@v5

* docs: cleanup aliases

* docs: cleanup benchmark

* docs(cli): cleanup

* docs: update documentation for package metadata

* docs: cleanup configuring

* docs: cleanup completion

* docs: cleanup continuous-integration

* docs: cleanup faq

* docs: cleanup filtering

* docs: cleanup git

* docs: cleanup how-peers-are-resolved

* docs: cleanup installation

* docs: cleanup limitations

* docs: cleanup motivation

* docs: fix publish from upstream

* docs: fix update and outdated from upstream

* docs: cleanup npmrc

* docs: cleanup only-allow-pnpm

* docs: cleanup package_json

* docs: cleanup pnpm-cli

* docs: finalize pnpmfile

* docs: cleanup pnpm-vs-npm

* docs: cleanup pnpm-workspace_yaml

* docs: cleanup pnpx-cli

* docs: releasing-apps -> production

* docs: remove about-the-package-store

* docs: cleanup symlinked-node-modules-structure

* docs: cleanup using-changesets

* docs: cleanup workspaces

* docs: implement requested changes

docs/motivation.md, after:

---
id: motivation
title: Motivation
---

# Flat `node_modules`

When using npm or Yarn, if you have 100 projects using a dependency, you will
have 100 copies of that dependency saved on disk. This is caused by the use of
a flat `node_modules` structure. However, with pnpm, the dependency will be
stored in a content-addressable store, so:

1. If you depend on different versions of the dependency, only the files that
differ are added to the store. For instance, if it has 100 files, and a new
version has a change in only one of those files, `pnpm update` will only add 1
new file to the store, instead of cloning the entire dependency just for the
singular change.
1. All the files are saved in a single place on the disk. When packages are
installed, their files are hard-linked from that single place, consuming no
additional disk space. This allows you to share dependencies of the same version
across projects.

As a result, you save a lot of space on your disk proportional to the number of
projects and dependencies, and you have a lot faster installations!

If you'd like more details about the unique `node_modules` structure that pnpm
creates and why it works fine with the Node.js ecosystem, read this small
article, and our corresponding documentation about the content-addressable
store:
- [Flat node_modules is not the only way](/blog/2020/05/27/flat-node-modules-is-not-the-only-way)
- [Symlinked node_modules structure](symlinked-node-modules-structure)
