docs/package_json.md, before:

---
id: package_json
title: package.json
---

The manifest file of a package. It contains all the package's metadata,
including dependencies, title, author, et cetera. This is a standard preserved
across all major Node.js package managers, including pnpm.

## engines

You can specify the version of Node and pnpm that your software works on:

```json
{
    "engines": {
        "node": ">=10",
        "pnpm": ">=3"
    }
}
```

During local development, pnpm will always fail with an error message
if its version does not match the one specified in the `engines` field.

Unless the user has set the `engine-strict` config flag (see [.npmrc]), this
field is advisory only and will only produce warnings when your package is
installed as a dependency.

[.npmrc]: ./npmrc.md#engine-strict

## dependenciesMeta

Additional meta information used for dependencies declared inside `dependencies`, `optionalDependencies`, and `devDependencies`.

### dependenciesMeta.*.injected

If this is set to `true` for a dependency that is a local workspace package, that package will be installed by creating a hard linked copy in the virtual store (`node_modules/.pnpm`).

If this is set to `false` or not set, then the dependency will instead be installed by creating a `node_modules` symlink that points to the package's source directory in the workspace.  This is the default, as it is faster and ensures that any modifications to the dependency will be immediately visible to its consumers.

For example, suppose the following `package.json` is a local workspace package:

```json
{
  "name": "card",
  "dependencies": {
    "button": "workspace:1.0.0"
  }
}
```

The `button` dependency will normally be installed by creating a symlink in the `node_modules` directory of `card`, pointing to the development directory for `button`.

But what if `button` specifies `react` in its `peerDependencies`? If all projects in the monorepo use the same version of `react`, then there is no problem. But what if `button` is required by `card` that uses `react@16` and `form` that uses `react@17`? Normally you'd have to choose a single version of `react` and specify it using `devDependencies` of `button`. Symlinking does not provide a way for the `react` peer dependency to be satisfied differently by different consumers such as `card` and `form`.

The `injected` field solves this problem by installing a hard linked copies of `button` in the virtual store. To accomplish this, the `package.json` of `card` could be configured as follows:

```json
{
  "name": "card",
  "dependencies": {
    "button": "workspace:1.0.0",
    "react": "16"
  },
  "dependenciesMeta": {
    "button": {
      "injected": true
    }
  }
}
```

Whereas the `package.json` of `form` could be configured as follows:

```json
{
  "name": "form",
  "dependencies": {
    "button": "workspace:1.0.0",
    "react": "17"
  },
  "dependenciesMeta": {
    "button": {
      "injected": true
    }
  }
}
```

With these changes, we say that `button` is an "injected dependency" of `card` and `form`.  When `button` imports `react`, it will resolve to `react@16` in the context of `card`, but resolve to `react@17` in the context of `form`.

Because injected dependencies produce copies of their workspace source directory, these copies must be updated somehow whenever the code is modified; otherwise, the new state will not be reflected for consumers. When building multiple projects with a command such as `pnpm --recursive run build`, this update must occur after each injected package is rebuilt but before its consumers are rebuilt. For simple use cases, it can be accomplished by invoking `pnpm install` again, perhaps using a `package.json` lifecycle script such as `"prepare": "pnpm run build"` to rebuild that one project.  Third party tools such as [pnpm-sync](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pnpm-sync-lib) and [pnpm-sync-dependencies-meta-injected](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pnpm-sync-dependencies-meta-injected) provide a more robust and efficient solution for updating injected dependencies, as well as watch mode support.

## peerDependenciesMeta

This field lists some extra information related to the dependencies listed in
the `peerDependencies` field.

### peerDependenciesMeta.*.optional

If this is set to true, the selected peer dependency will be marked as optional
by the package manager. Therefore, the consumer omitting it will no longer be
reported as an error.

For example:
```json
{
    "peerDependencies": {
        "foo": "1"
    },
    "peerDependenciesMeta": {
        "foo": {
            "optional": true
        },
        "bar": {
            "optional": true
        }
    }
}
```

Note that even though `bar` was not specified in `peerDependencies`, it is
marked as optional. pnpm will therefore assume that any version of bar is fine.
However, `foo` is optional, but only to the required version specification.

## publishConfig

It is possible to override some fields in the manifest before the package is
packed.
The following fields may be overridden:

* [`bin`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#bin)
* [`main`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#main)
* [`exports`](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html#esm_package_exports)
* [`types` or `typings`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#types)
* [`module`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#module)
* [`browser`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#browser)
* [`esnext`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#esnext)
* [`es2015`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#es2015)
* [`unpkg`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#unpkg-1)
* [`umd:main`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#microbundle)
* [`typesVersions`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-files/publishing.html#version-selection-with-typesversions)
* cpu
* os

To override a field, add the publish version of the field to `publishConfig`.

For instance, the following `package.json`:

```json
{
    "name": "foo",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "main": "src/index.ts",
    "publishConfig": {
        "main": "lib/index.js",
        "typings": "lib/index.d.ts"
    }
}
```

Will be published as:

```json
{
    "name": "foo",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "main": "lib/index.js",
    "typings": "lib/index.d.ts"
}
```

### publishConfig.executableFiles

By default, for portability reasons, no files except those listed in the bin field will be marked as executable in the resulting package archive. The `executableFiles` field lets you declare additional files that must have the executable flag (+x) set even if they aren't directly accessible through the bin field.

```json
{
  "publishConfig": {
    "executableFiles": [
      "./dist/shim.js"
    ]
  }
}
```

### publishConfig.directory

You also can use the field `publishConfig.directory` to customize the published subdirectory relative to the current `package.json`.

It is expected to have a modified version of the current package in the specified directory (usually using third party build tools).

> In this example the `"dist"` folder must contain a `package.json`

```json
{
  "name": "foo",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "publishConfig": {
    "directory": "dist"
  }
}
```

### publishConfig.linkDirectory

* Default: **true**
* Type: **Boolean**

When set to `true`, the project will be symlinked from the `publishConfig.directory` location during local development.

For example:

```json
{
  "name": "foo",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "publishConfig": {
    "directory": "dist",
    "linkDirectory": true
  }
}
```

## pnpm.overrides

This field allows you to instruct pnpm to override any dependency in the
dependency graph. This is useful for enforcing all your packages to use a single
version of a dependency, backporting a fix, replacing a dependency with a fork, or
removing an unused dependency.

Note that the overrides field can only be set at the root of the project.

An example of the `"pnpm"."overrides"` field:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "overrides": {
      "foo": "^1.0.0",
      "quux": "npm:@myorg/quux@^1.0.0",
      "bar@^2.1.0": "3.0.0",
      "qar@1>zoo": "2"
    }
  }
}
```

You may specify the package the overridden dependency belongs to by
separating the package selector from the dependency selector with a ">", for
example `qar@1>zoo` will only override the `zoo` dependency of `qar@1`, not for
any other dependencies.

An override may be defined as a reference to a direct dependency's spec.
This is achieved by prefixing the name of the dependency with a `$`:

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "foo": "^1.0.0"
  },
  "pnpm": {
    "overrides": {
      "foo": "$foo"
    }
  }
}
```

The referenced package does not need to match the overridden one:

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "foo": "^1.0.0"
  },
  "pnpm": {
    "overrides": {
      "bar": "$foo"
    }
  }
}
```

If you find that your use of a certain package doesn’t require one of its dependencies, you may use `-` to remove it. For example, if package `foo@1.0.0` requires a large package named `bar` for a function that you don’t use, removing it could reduce install time:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "overrides": {
      "foo@1.0.0>bar": "-"
    }
  }
}
```

This feature is especially useful with `optionalDependencies`, where most optional packages can be safely skipped.

## pnpm.packageExtensions

The `packageExtensions` fields offer a way to extend the existing package definitions with additional information. For example, if `react-redux` should have `react-dom` in its `peerDependencies` but it has not, it is possible to patch `react-redux` using `packageExtensions`:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "packageExtensions": {
      "react-redux": {
        "peerDependencies": {
          "react-dom": "*"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The keys in `packageExtensions` are package names or package names and semver ranges, so it is possible to patch only some versions of a package:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "packageExtensions": {
      "react-redux@1": {
        "peerDependencies": {
          "react-dom": "*"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The following fields may be extended using `packageExtensions`: `dependencies`, `optionalDependencies`, `peerDependencies`, and `peerDependenciesMeta`.

A bigger example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "packageExtensions": {
      "express@1": {
        "optionalDependencies": {
          "typescript": "2"
        }
      },
      "fork-ts-checker-webpack-plugin": {
        "dependencies": {
          "@babel/core": "1"
        },
        "peerDependencies": {
          "eslint": ">= 6"
        },
        "peerDependenciesMeta": {
          "eslint": {
            "optional": true
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

:::tip

Together with Yarn, we maintain a database of `packageExtensions` to patch broken packages in the ecosystem.
If you use `packageExtensions`, consider sending a PR upstream and contributing your extension to the [`@yarnpkg/extensions`] database.

:::

[`@yarnpkg/extensions`]: https://github.com/yarnpkg/berry/blob/master/packages/yarnpkg-extensions/sources/index.ts

## pnpm.peerDependencyRules

### pnpm.peerDependencyRules.ignoreMissing

pnpm will not print warnings about missing peer dependencies from this list.

For instance, with the following configuration, pnpm will not print warnings if a dependency needs `react` but `react` is not installed:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "peerDependencyRules": {
      "ignoreMissing": ["react"]
    }
  }
}
```

Package name patterns may also be used:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "peerDependencyRules": {
      "ignoreMissing": ["@babel/*", "@eslint/*"]
    }
  }
}
```

### pnpm.peerDependencyRules.allowedVersions

Unmet peer dependency warnings will not be printed for peer dependencies of the specified range.

For instance, if you have some dependencies that need `react@16` but you know that they work fine with `react@17`, then you may use the following configuration:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "peerDependencyRules": {
      "allowedVersions": {
        "react": "17"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This will tell pnpm that any dependency that has react in its peer dependencies should allow `react` v17 to be installed.

It is also possible to suppress the warnings only for peer dependencies of specific packages. For instance, with the following configuration `react` v17 will be only allowed when it is in the peer dependencies of the `button` v2 package or in the dependencies of any `card` package:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "peerDependencyRules": {
      "allowedVersions": {
        "button@2>react": "17",
        "card>react": "17"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### pnpm.peerDependencyRules.allowAny

`allowAny` is an array of package name patterns, any peer dependency matching the pattern will be resolved from any version, regardless of the range specified in `peerDependencies`. For instance:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "peerDependencyRules": {
      "allowAny": ["@babel/*", "eslint"]
    }
  }
}
```

The above setting will mute any warnings about peer dependency version mismatches related to `@babel/` packages or `eslint`.

## pnpm.neverBuiltDependencies

This field allows to ignore the builds of specific dependencies.
The "preinstall", "install", and "postinstall" scripts of the listed packages will not be executed during installation.

An example of the `"pnpm"."neverBuiltDependencies"` field:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "neverBuiltDependencies": ["fsevents", "level"]
  }
}
```

## pnpm.onlyBuiltDependencies

A list of package names that are allowed to be executed during installation. If this field exists, only the listed packages will be able to run install scripts.

Example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "onlyBuiltDependencies": ["fsevents"]
  }
}
```

## pnpm.onlyBuiltDependenciesFile

This configuration option allows users to specify a JSON file that lists the only packages permitted to run installation scripts during the pnpm install process. By using this, you can enhance security or ensure that only specific dependencies execute scripts during installation.

Example:

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "@my-org/policy": "1.0.0"
  },
  "pnpm": {
    "onlyBuiltDependenciesFile": "node_modules/@my-org/policy/onlyBuiltDependencies.json"
  }
}
```

The JSON file itself should contain an array of package names:

```json title="node_modules/@my-org/policy/onlyBuiltDependencies.json"
[
  "fsevents"
]
```

## pnpm.allowedDeprecatedVersions

This setting allows muting deprecation warnings of specific packages.

Example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "allowedDeprecatedVersions": {
      "express": "1",
      "request": "*"
    }
  }
}
```

With the above configuration pnpm will not print deprecation warnings about any version of `request` and about v1 of `express`.

## pnpm.patchedDependencies

This field is added/updated automatically when you run [pnpm patch-commit]. It is a dictionary where the key should be the package name and exact version. The value should be a relative path to a patch file.

Example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "patchedDependencies": {
      "express@4.18.1": "patches/express@4.18.1.patch"
    }
  }
}
```

## pnpm.allowNonAppliedPatches

When `true`, installation won't fail if some of the patches from the `patchedDependencies` field were not applied.

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "patchedDependencies": {
      "express@4.18.1": "patches/express@4.18.1.patch"
    },
    "allowNonAppliedPatches": true
}
```

## pnpm.updateConfig

### pnpm.updateConfig.ignoreDependencies

Sometimes you can't update a dependency. For instance, the latest version of the dependency started to use ESM but your project is not yet in ESM. Annoyingly, such a package will be always printed out by the `pnpm outdated` command and updated, when running `pnpm update --latest`. However, you may list packages that you don't want to upgrade in the `ignoreDependencies` field:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "updateConfig": {
      "ignoreDependencies": ["load-json-file"]
    }
  }
}
```

Patterns are also supported, so you may ignore any packages from a scope: `@babel/*`.

## pnpm.auditConfig

### pnpm.auditConfig.ignoreCves

A list of CVE IDs that will be ignored by the [`pnpm audit`] command.

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "auditConfig": {
      "ignoreCves": [
        "CVE-2022-36313"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

[`pnpm audit`]: ./cli/audit.md

### pnpm.auditConfig.ignoreGhsas

A list of GHSA Codes that will be ignored by the [`pnpm audit`] command.

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "auditConfig": {
      "ignoreGhsas": [
        "GHSA-42xw-2xvc-qx8m",
        "GHSA-4w2v-q235-vp99",
        "GHSA-cph5-m8f7-6c5x",
        "GHSA-vh95-rmgr-6w4m"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

[`pnpm audit`]: ./cli/audit.md

## pnpm.requiredScripts

Scripts listed in this array will be required in each project of the workspace. Otherwise, `pnpm -r run <script name>` will fail.

```
{
  "pnpm": {
    "requiredScripts": ["build"]
  }
}
```

## pnpm.supportedArchitectures

You can specify architectures for which you'd like to install optional dependencies, even if they don't match the architecture of the system running the install.

For example, the following configuration tells to install optional dependencies for Windows x64:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "supportedArchitectures": {
      "os": ["win32"],
      "cpu": ["x64"]
    }
  }
}
```

Whereas this configuration will install optional dependencies for Windows, macOS, and the architecture of the system currently running the install. It includes artifacts for both x64 and arm64 CPUs:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "supportedArchitectures": {
      "os": ["win32", "darwin", "current"],
      "cpu": ["x64", "arm64"]
    }
  }
}
```

Additionally, `supportedArchitectures` also supports specifying the `libc` of the system.

## pnpm.ignoredOptionalDependencies

If an optional dependency has its name included in this array, it will be skipped. For example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "ignoredOptionalDependencies": ["fsevents", "@esbuild/*"]
  }
}
```

## pnpm.executionEnv.nodeVersion

Specifies which exact Node.js version should be used for the project's runtime.
pnpm will automatically install the specified version of Node.js and use it for
running `pnpm run` commands or the `pnpm node` command.

For example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "executionEnv": {
      "nodeVersion": "16.16.0"
    }
  }
}
```

## resolutions

Functionally identical to [`pnpm.overrides`], this field is intended to make it easier to migrate from Yarn.

`resolutions` and `pnpm.overrides` get merged before package resolution (with `pnpm.overrides` taking precedence), which can be useful when you're migrating from Yarn and need to tweak a few packages just for pnpm.

[pnpm patch-commit]: ./cli/patch-commit.md
[`pnpm.overrides`]: #pnpmoverrides

Commit message:

docs: mention `package.json5` and `package.yaml` (#626)
* docs: mention `package.json5` and `package.yaml`

* Update docs/package_json.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Zoltan Kochan <z@kochan.io>

docs/package_json.md, after:

---
id: package_json
title: package.json
---

The manifest file of a package. It contains all the package's metadata,
including dependencies, title, author, et cetera. This is a standard preserved
across all major Node.js package managers, including pnpm.

In addition to the traditional `package.json` format, pnpm also supports `package.json5` (via [json5]) and `package.yaml` (via [js-yaml]).

[json5]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/json5
[js-yaml]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@zkochan/js-yaml

## engines

You can specify the version of Node and pnpm that your software works on:

```json
{
    "engines": {
        "node": ">=10",
        "pnpm": ">=3"
    }
}
```

During local development, pnpm will always fail with an error message
if its version does not match the one specified in the `engines` field.

Unless the user has set the `engine-strict` config flag (see [.npmrc]), this
field is advisory only and will only produce warnings when your package is
installed as a dependency.

[.npmrc]: ./npmrc.md#engine-strict

## dependenciesMeta

Additional meta information used for dependencies declared inside `dependencies`, `optionalDependencies`, and `devDependencies`.

### dependenciesMeta.*.injected

If this is set to `true` for a dependency that is a local workspace package, that package will be installed by creating a hard linked copy in the virtual store (`node_modules/.pnpm`).

If this is set to `false` or not set, then the dependency will instead be installed by creating a `node_modules` symlink that points to the package's source directory in the workspace.  This is the default, as it is faster and ensures that any modifications to the dependency will be immediately visible to its consumers.

For example, suppose the following `package.json` is a local workspace package:

```json
{
  "name": "card",
  "dependencies": {
    "button": "workspace:1.0.0"
  }
}
```

The `button` dependency will normally be installed by creating a symlink in the `node_modules` directory of `card`, pointing to the development directory for `button`.

But what if `button` specifies `react` in its `peerDependencies`? If all projects in the monorepo use the same version of `react`, then there is no problem. But what if `button` is required by `card` that uses `react@16` and `form` that uses `react@17`? Normally you'd have to choose a single version of `react` and specify it using `devDependencies` of `button`. Symlinking does not provide a way for the `react` peer dependency to be satisfied differently by different consumers such as `card` and `form`.

The `injected` field solves this problem by installing a hard linked copies of `button` in the virtual store. To accomplish this, the `package.json` of `card` could be configured as follows:

```json
{
  "name": "card",
  "dependencies": {
    "button": "workspace:1.0.0",
    "react": "16"
  },
  "dependenciesMeta": {
    "button": {
      "injected": true
    }
  }
}
```

Whereas the `package.json` of `form` could be configured as follows:

```json
{
  "name": "form",
  "dependencies": {
    "button": "workspace:1.0.0",
    "react": "17"
  },
  "dependenciesMeta": {
    "button": {
      "injected": true
    }
  }
}
```

With these changes, we say that `button` is an "injected dependency" of `card` and `form`.  When `button` imports `react`, it will resolve to `react@16` in the context of `card`, but resolve to `react@17` in the context of `form`.

Because injected dependencies produce copies of their workspace source directory, these copies must be updated somehow whenever the code is modified; otherwise, the new state will not be reflected for consumers. When building multiple projects with a command such as `pnpm --recursive run build`, this update must occur after each injected package is rebuilt but before its consumers are rebuilt. For simple use cases, it can be accomplished by invoking `pnpm install` again, perhaps using a `package.json` lifecycle script such as `"prepare": "pnpm run build"` to rebuild that one project.  Third party tools such as [pnpm-sync](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pnpm-sync-lib) and [pnpm-sync-dependencies-meta-injected](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pnpm-sync-dependencies-meta-injected) provide a more robust and efficient solution for updating injected dependencies, as well as watch mode support.

## peerDependenciesMeta

This field lists some extra information related to the dependencies listed in
the `peerDependencies` field.

### peerDependenciesMeta.*.optional

If this is set to true, the selected peer dependency will be marked as optional
by the package manager. Therefore, the consumer omitting it will no longer be
reported as an error.

For example:
```json
{
    "peerDependencies": {
        "foo": "1"
    },
    "peerDependenciesMeta": {
        "foo": {
            "optional": true
        },
        "bar": {
            "optional": true
        }
    }
}
```

Note that even though `bar` was not specified in `peerDependencies`, it is
marked as optional. pnpm will therefore assume that any version of bar is fine.
However, `foo` is optional, but only to the required version specification.

## publishConfig

It is possible to override some fields in the manifest before the package is
packed.
The following fields may be overridden:

* [`bin`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#bin)
* [`main`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#main)
* [`exports`](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html#esm_package_exports)
* [`types` or `typings`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#types)
* [`module`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#module)
* [`browser`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#browser)
* [`esnext`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#esnext)
* [`es2015`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#es2015)
* [`unpkg`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#unpkg-1)
* [`umd:main`](https://github.com/stereobooster/package.json#microbundle)
* [`typesVersions`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-files/publishing.html#version-selection-with-typesversions)
* cpu
* os

To override a field, add the publish version of the field to `publishConfig`.

For instance, the following `package.json`:

```json
{
    "name": "foo",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "main": "src/index.ts",
    "publishConfig": {
        "main": "lib/index.js",
        "typings": "lib/index.d.ts"
    }
}
```

Will be published as:

```json
{
    "name": "foo",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "main": "lib/index.js",
    "typings": "lib/index.d.ts"
}
```

### publishConfig.executableFiles

By default, for portability reasons, no files except those listed in the bin field will be marked as executable in the resulting package archive. The `executableFiles` field lets you declare additional files that must have the executable flag (+x) set even if they aren't directly accessible through the bin field.

```json
{
  "publishConfig": {
    "executableFiles": [
      "./dist/shim.js"
    ]
  }
}
```

### publishConfig.directory

You also can use the field `publishConfig.directory` to customize the published subdirectory relative to the current `package.json`.

It is expected to have a modified version of the current package in the specified directory (usually using third party build tools).

> In this example the `"dist"` folder must contain a `package.json`

```json
{
  "name": "foo",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "publishConfig": {
    "directory": "dist"
  }
}
```

### publishConfig.linkDirectory

* Default: **true**
* Type: **Boolean**

When set to `true`, the project will be symlinked from the `publishConfig.directory` location during local development.

For example:

```json
{
  "name": "foo",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "publishConfig": {
    "directory": "dist",
    "linkDirectory": true
  }
}
```

## pnpm.overrides

This field allows you to instruct pnpm to override any dependency in the
dependency graph. This is useful for enforcing all your packages to use a single
version of a dependency, backporting a fix, replacing a dependency with a fork, or
removing an unused dependency.

Note that the overrides field can only be set at the root of the project.

An example of the `"pnpm"."overrides"` field:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "overrides": {
      "foo": "^1.0.0",
      "quux": "npm:@myorg/quux@^1.0.0",
      "bar@^2.1.0": "3.0.0",
      "qar@1>zoo": "2"
    }
  }
}
```

You may specify the package the overridden dependency belongs to by
separating the package selector from the dependency selector with a ">", for
example `qar@1>zoo` will only override the `zoo` dependency of `qar@1`, not for
any other dependencies.

An override may be defined as a reference to a direct dependency's spec.
This is achieved by prefixing the name of the dependency with a `$`:

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "foo": "^1.0.0"
  },
  "pnpm": {
    "overrides": {
      "foo": "$foo"
    }
  }
}
```

The referenced package does not need to match the overridden one:

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "foo": "^1.0.0"
  },
  "pnpm": {
    "overrides": {
      "bar": "$foo"
    }
  }
}
```

If you find that your use of a certain package doesn’t require one of its dependencies, you may use `-` to remove it. For example, if package `foo@1.0.0` requires a large package named `bar` for a function that you don’t use, removing it could reduce install time:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "overrides": {
      "foo@1.0.0>bar": "-"
    }
  }
}
```

This feature is especially useful with `optionalDependencies`, where most optional packages can be safely skipped.

## pnpm.packageExtensions

The `packageExtensions` fields offer a way to extend the existing package definitions with additional information. For example, if `react-redux` should have `react-dom` in its `peerDependencies` but it has not, it is possible to patch `react-redux` using `packageExtensions`:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "packageExtensions": {
      "react-redux": {
        "peerDependencies": {
          "react-dom": "*"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The keys in `packageExtensions` are package names or package names and semver ranges, so it is possible to patch only some versions of a package:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "packageExtensions": {
      "react-redux@1": {
        "peerDependencies": {
          "react-dom": "*"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The following fields may be extended using `packageExtensions`: `dependencies`, `optionalDependencies`, `peerDependencies`, and `peerDependenciesMeta`.

A bigger example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "packageExtensions": {
      "express@1": {
        "optionalDependencies": {
          "typescript": "2"
        }
      },
      "fork-ts-checker-webpack-plugin": {
        "dependencies": {
          "@babel/core": "1"
        },
        "peerDependencies": {
          "eslint": ">= 6"
        },
        "peerDependenciesMeta": {
          "eslint": {
            "optional": true
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

:::tip

Together with Yarn, we maintain a database of `packageExtensions` to patch broken packages in the ecosystem.
If you use `packageExtensions`, consider sending a PR upstream and contributing your extension to the [`@yarnpkg/extensions`] database.

:::

[`@yarnpkg/extensions`]: https://github.com/yarnpkg/berry/blob/master/packages/yarnpkg-extensions/sources/index.ts

## pnpm.peerDependencyRules

### pnpm.peerDependencyRules.ignoreMissing

pnpm will not print warnings about missing peer dependencies from this list.

For instance, with the following configuration, pnpm will not print warnings if a dependency needs `react` but `react` is not installed:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "peerDependencyRules": {
      "ignoreMissing": ["react"]
    }
  }
}
```

Package name patterns may also be used:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "peerDependencyRules": {
      "ignoreMissing": ["@babel/*", "@eslint/*"]
    }
  }
}
```

### pnpm.peerDependencyRules.allowedVersions

Unmet peer dependency warnings will not be printed for peer dependencies of the specified range.

For instance, if you have some dependencies that need `react@16` but you know that they work fine with `react@17`, then you may use the following configuration:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "peerDependencyRules": {
      "allowedVersions": {
        "react": "17"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This will tell pnpm that any dependency that has react in its peer dependencies should allow `react` v17 to be installed.

It is also possible to suppress the warnings only for peer dependencies of specific packages. For instance, with the following configuration `react` v17 will be only allowed when it is in the peer dependencies of the `button` v2 package or in the dependencies of any `card` package:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "peerDependencyRules": {
      "allowedVersions": {
        "button@2>react": "17",
        "card>react": "17"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### pnpm.peerDependencyRules.allowAny

`allowAny` is an array of package name patterns, any peer dependency matching the pattern will be resolved from any version, regardless of the range specified in `peerDependencies`. For instance:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "peerDependencyRules": {
      "allowAny": ["@babel/*", "eslint"]
    }
  }
}
```

The above setting will mute any warnings about peer dependency version mismatches related to `@babel/` packages or `eslint`.

## pnpm.neverBuiltDependencies

This field allows to ignore the builds of specific dependencies.
The "preinstall", "install", and "postinstall" scripts of the listed packages will not be executed during installation.

An example of the `"pnpm"."neverBuiltDependencies"` field:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "neverBuiltDependencies": ["fsevents", "level"]
  }
}
```

## pnpm.onlyBuiltDependencies

A list of package names that are allowed to be executed during installation. If this field exists, only the listed packages will be able to run install scripts.

Example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "onlyBuiltDependencies": ["fsevents"]
  }
}
```

## pnpm.onlyBuiltDependenciesFile

This configuration option allows users to specify a JSON file that lists the only packages permitted to run installation scripts during the pnpm install process. By using this, you can enhance security or ensure that only specific dependencies execute scripts during installation.

Example:

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "@my-org/policy": "1.0.0"
  },
  "pnpm": {
    "onlyBuiltDependenciesFile": "node_modules/@my-org/policy/onlyBuiltDependencies.json"
  }
}
```

The JSON file itself should contain an array of package names:

```json title="node_modules/@my-org/policy/onlyBuiltDependencies.json"
[
  "fsevents"
]
```

## pnpm.allowedDeprecatedVersions

This setting allows muting deprecation warnings of specific packages.

Example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "allowedDeprecatedVersions": {
      "express": "1",
      "request": "*"
    }
  }
}
```

With the above configuration pnpm will not print deprecation warnings about any version of `request` and about v1 of `express`.

## pnpm.patchedDependencies

This field is added/updated automatically when you run [pnpm patch-commit]. It is a dictionary where the key should be the package name and exact version. The value should be a relative path to a patch file.

Example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "patchedDependencies": {
      "express@4.18.1": "patches/express@4.18.1.patch"
    }
  }
}
```

## pnpm.allowNonAppliedPatches

When `true`, installation won't fail if some of the patches from the `patchedDependencies` field were not applied.

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "patchedDependencies": {
      "express@4.18.1": "patches/express@4.18.1.patch"
    },
    "allowNonAppliedPatches": true
}
```

## pnpm.updateConfig

### pnpm.updateConfig.ignoreDependencies

Sometimes you can't update a dependency. For instance, the latest version of the dependency started to use ESM but your project is not yet in ESM. Annoyingly, such a package will be always printed out by the `pnpm outdated` command and updated, when running `pnpm update --latest`. However, you may list packages that you don't want to upgrade in the `ignoreDependencies` field:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "updateConfig": {
      "ignoreDependencies": ["load-json-file"]
    }
  }
}
```

Patterns are also supported, so you may ignore any packages from a scope: `@babel/*`.

## pnpm.auditConfig

### pnpm.auditConfig.ignoreCves

A list of CVE IDs that will be ignored by the [`pnpm audit`] command.

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "auditConfig": {
      "ignoreCves": [
        "CVE-2022-36313"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

[`pnpm audit`]: ./cli/audit.md

### pnpm.auditConfig.ignoreGhsas

A list of GHSA Codes that will be ignored by the [`pnpm audit`] command.

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "auditConfig": {
      "ignoreGhsas": [
        "GHSA-42xw-2xvc-qx8m",
        "GHSA-4w2v-q235-vp99",
        "GHSA-cph5-m8f7-6c5x",
        "GHSA-vh95-rmgr-6w4m"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

[`pnpm audit`]: ./cli/audit.md

## pnpm.requiredScripts

Scripts listed in this array will be required in each project of the workspace. Otherwise, `pnpm -r run <script name>` will fail.

```
{
  "pnpm": {
    "requiredScripts": ["build"]
  }
}
```

## pnpm.supportedArchitectures

You can specify architectures for which you'd like to install optional dependencies, even if they don't match the architecture of the system running the install.

For example, the following configuration tells to install optional dependencies for Windows x64:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "supportedArchitectures": {
      "os": ["win32"],
      "cpu": ["x64"]
    }
  }
}
```

Whereas this configuration will install optional dependencies for Windows, macOS, and the architecture of the system currently running the install. It includes artifacts for both x64 and arm64 CPUs:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "supportedArchitectures": {
      "os": ["win32", "darwin", "current"],
      "cpu": ["x64", "arm64"]
    }
  }
}
```

Additionally, `supportedArchitectures` also supports specifying the `libc` of the system.

## pnpm.ignoredOptionalDependencies

If an optional dependency has its name included in this array, it will be skipped. For example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "ignoredOptionalDependencies": ["fsevents", "@esbuild/*"]
  }
}
```

## pnpm.executionEnv.nodeVersion

Specifies which exact Node.js version should be used for the project's runtime.
pnpm will automatically install the specified version of Node.js and use it for
running `pnpm run` commands or the `pnpm node` command.

For example:

```json
{
  "pnpm": {
    "executionEnv": {
      "nodeVersion": "16.16.0"
    }
  }
}
```

## resolutions

Functionally identical to [`pnpm.overrides`], this field is intended to make it easier to migrate from Yarn.

`resolutions` and `pnpm.overrides` get merged before package resolution (with `pnpm.overrides` taking precedence), which can be useful when you're migrating from Yarn and need to tweak a few packages just for pnpm.

[pnpm patch-commit]: ./cli/patch-commit.md
[`pnpm.overrides`]: #pnpmoverrides
