docs/pnpm-vs-npm.md, before:

---
id: pnpm-vs-npm
title: pnpm vs npm
---

## npm's flat tree

npm maintains a [flattened dependency tree] as of version 3. This leads to less
disk space bloat, with a messy `node_modules` directory as a side effect.

On the other hand, pnpm manages `node_modules` as a content addressable file
store in its [store layout]. This nets you the benefits of far less disk space
usage, while also keeping your `node_modules` clean.

The good thing about pnpm's proper `node_modules` structure is that it
"[helps to avoid silly bugs]" by making it impossible to use modules that are not
specified in the project's `package.json`.

[flattened dependency tree]: https://github.com/npm/npm/issues/6912
[store layout]: about-the-package-store
[helps to avoid silly bugs]: https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/pnpms-strictness-helps-to-avoid-silly-bugs.html

## Installation

pnpm does not allow installation of packages without saving them to
`package.json`. If no parameters are passed to `pnpm add`, packages are saved as
regular dependencies. Like with npm, `--save-dev` and `--save-optional` can be
used to install packages as dev or optional dependencies.

As a consequence of this limitation, projects won't have any extraneous packages
when they use pnpm unless they remove a dependency and leave it orphaned. That's
why pnpm's implementation of the [prune command] does not allow you to specify
packages to prune - it ALWAYS removes all extraneous and orphaned packages.

[prune command]: cli/prune

## Directory dependencies

Directory dependencies start with the `file:` prefix and point to a directory in
the filesystem. Like npm, pnpm symlinks those dependencies. Unlike npm, pnpm
does not perform installation for the file dependencies.

This means that if you have a package called `foo` (`<root>/foo`) that has
`bar@file:../bar` as a dependency, pnpm won't perform installation for
`<root>/bar` when you run `pnpm install` on `foo`.

If you need to run installations in several packages at the same time, for
instance in the case of a monorepo, you should look at the documentation for
[`pnpm -r`].

[`pnpm -r`]: cli/recursive

Commit message:

docs: remove about-the-package-store

docs/pnpm-vs-npm.md, after:

---
id: pnpm-vs-npm
title: pnpm vs npm
---

## npm's flat tree

npm maintains a [flattened dependency tree] as of version 3. This leads to less
disk space bloat, with a messy `node_modules` directory as a side effect.

On the other hand, pnpm manages `node_modules` by using hard linking and
symbolic linking to a global on-disk content-addressable store. This nets you
the benefits of far less disk space usage, while also keeping your
`node_modules` clean. There is documentation on the [store layout] if you wish
to learn more.

The good thing about pnpm's proper `node_modules` structure is that it
"[helps to avoid silly bugs]" by making it impossible to use modules that are not
specified in the project's `package.json`.

[flattened dependency tree]: https://github.com/npm/npm/issues/6912
[store layout]: symlinked-node-modules-structure
[helps to avoid silly bugs]: https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/pnpms-strictness-helps-to-avoid-silly-bugs.html

## Installation

pnpm does not allow installation of packages without saving them to
`package.json`. If no parameters are passed to `pnpm add`, packages are saved as
regular dependencies. Like with npm, `--save-dev` and `--save-optional` can be
used to install packages as dev or optional dependencies.

As a consequence of this limitation, projects won't have any extraneous packages
when they use pnpm unless they remove a dependency and leave it orphaned. That's
why pnpm's implementation of the [prune command] does not allow you to specify
packages to prune - it ALWAYS removes all extraneous and orphaned packages.

[prune command]: cli/prune

## Directory dependencies

Directory dependencies start with the `file:` prefix and point to a directory in
the filesystem. Like npm, pnpm symlinks those dependencies. Unlike npm, pnpm
does not perform installation for the file dependencies.

This means that if you have a package called `foo` (`<root>/foo`) that has
`bar@file:../bar` as a dependency, pnpm won't perform installation for
`<root>/bar` when you run `pnpm install` on `foo`.

If you need to run installations in several packages at the same time, for
instance in the case of a monorepo, you should look at the documentation for
[`pnpm -r`].

[`pnpm -r`]: cli/recursive
