docs/symlinked-node-modules-structure.md, before:

---
id: symlinked-node-modules-structure
title: Symlinked `node_modules` structure
---

:::info

This article only describes how pnpm's `node_modules` are structured when
there are no packages with peer dependencies. For the more complex scenario of
dependencies with peers, see [how peers are resolved](how-peers-are-resolved.md).

:::

pnpm's `node_modules` layout uses symbolic links to create a nested structure of
dependencies.

Every file of every package inside `node_modules` is a hard link to the
content-addressable store. Let's say you install `foo@1.0.0` that depends on
`bar@1.0.0`. pnpm will hard link both packages to `node_modules` like this:

```text
node_modules
└── .pnpm
    ├── bar@1.0.0
    │   └── node_modules
    │       └── bar -> <store>/bar
    │           ├── index.js
    │           └── package.json
    └── foo@1.0.0
        └── node_modules
            └── foo -> <store>/foo
                ├── index.js
                └── package.json
```

These are the only "real" files in `node_modules`. Once all the packages are
hard linked to `node_modules`, symbolic links are created to build the nested
dependency graph structure.

As you might have noticed, both packages are hard linked into a subfolder inside
a `node_modules` folder (`foo@1.0.0/node_modules/foo`). This is needed to:

1. **allow packages to import themselves.** `foo` should be able to
`require('foo/package.json')` or `import * as package from "foo/package.json"`.
2. **avoid circular symlinks.** Dependencies of packages are placed in the same
folder in which the dependent packages are. For Node.js it doesn't make a
difference whether dependencies are inside the package's `node_modules` or in
any other `node_modules` in the parent directories.

The next stage of installation is symlinking dependencies. `bar` is going to be
symlinked to the `foo@1.0.0/node_modules` folder:

```text
node_modules
└── .pnpm
    ├── bar@1.0.0
    │   └── node_modules
    │       └── bar -> <store>/bar
    └── foo@1.0.0
        └── node_modules
            ├── foo -> <store>/foo
            └── bar -> ../../bar@1.0.0/node_modules/bar
```

Next, direct dependencies are handled. `foo` is going to be symlinked into the
root `node_modules` folder because `foo` is a dependency of the project:

```text
node_modules
├── foo -> ./.pnpm/foo@1.0.0/node_modules/foo
└── .pnpm
    ├── bar@1.0.0
    │   └── node_modules
    │       └── bar -> <store>/bar
    └── foo@1.0.0
        └── node_modules
            ├── foo -> <store>/foo
            └── bar -> ../../bar@1.0.0/node_modules/bar
```

This is a very simple example. However, the layout will maintain this structure
regardless of the number of dependencies and the depth of the dependency graph.

Let's add `qar@2.0.0` as a dependency of `bar` and `foo`. This is how the new
structure will look:

```text
node_modules
├── foo -> ./.pnpm/foo@1.0.0/node_modules/foo
└── .pnpm
    ├── bar@1.0.0
    │   └── node_modules
    │       ├── bar -> <store>/bar
    │       └── qar -> ../../qar@2.0.0/node_modules/qar
    ├── foo@1.0.0
    │   └── node_modules
    │       ├── foo -> <store>/foo
    │       ├── bar -> ../../bar@1.0.0/node_modules/bar
    │       └── qar -> ../../qar@2.0.0/node_modules/qar
    └── qar@2.0.0
        └── node_modules
            └── qar -> <store>/qar
```

As you may see, even though the graph is deeper now (`foo > bar > qar`), the
directory depth in the file system is still the same.

This layout might look weird at first glance, but it is completely compatible
with Node's module resolution algorithm! When resolving modules, Node ignores
symlinks, so when `bar` is required from `foo@1.0.0/node_modules/foo/index.js`,
Node does not use `bar` at `foo@1.0.0/node_modules/bar`, but instead, `bar` is
resolved to its real location (`bar@1.0.0/node_modules/bar`). As a consequence,
`bar` can also resolve its dependencies which are in `bar@1.0.0/node_modules`.

A great bonus of this layout is that only packages that are really in the
dependencies are accessible. With a flattened `node_modules` structure, all
hoisted packages are accessible. To read more about why this is an advantage,
see "[pnpm's strictness helps to avoid silly bugs][bugs]"

[bugs]: https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/pnpms-strictness-helps-to-avoid-silly-bugs.html

Commit message:

docs: update docs about symlinked node_modules

docs/symlinked-node-modules-structure.md, after:

---
id: symlinked-node-modules-structure
title: Symlinked `node_modules` structure
---

:::info

This article only describes how pnpm's `node_modules` are structured when
there are no packages with peer dependencies. For the more complex scenario of
dependencies with peers, see [how peers are resolved](how-peers-are-resolved.md).

:::

pnpm's `node_modules` layout uses symbolic links to create a nested structure of
dependencies.

Every file of every package inside `node_modules` is a hard link to the
content-addressable store. Let's say you install `foo@1.0.0` that depends on
`bar@1.0.0`. pnpm will hard link both packages to `node_modules` like this:

```text
node_modules
└── .pnpm
    ├── bar@1.0.0
    │   └── node_modules
    │       └── bar
    │           ├── index.js     -> <store>/001
    │           └── package.json -> <store>/002
    └── foo@1.0.0
        └── node_modules
            └── foo
                ├── index.js     -> <store>/003
                └── package.json -> <store>/004
```

These are the only "real" files in `node_modules`. Once all the packages are
hard linked to `node_modules`, symbolic links are created to build the nested
dependency graph structure.

As you might have noticed, both packages are hard linked into a subfolder inside
a `node_modules` folder (`foo@1.0.0/node_modules/foo`). This is needed to:

1. **allow packages to import themselves.** `foo` should be able to
`require('foo/package.json')` or `import * as package from "foo/package.json"`.
2. **avoid circular symlinks.** Dependencies of packages are placed in the same
folder in which the dependent packages are. For Node.js it doesn't make a
difference whether dependencies are inside the package's `node_modules` or in
any other `node_modules` in the parent directories.

The next stage of installation is symlinking dependencies. `bar` is going to be
symlinked to the `foo@1.0.0/node_modules` folder:

```text
node_modules
└── .pnpm
    ├── bar@1.0.0
    │   └── node_modules
    │       └── bar -> <store>
    └── foo@1.0.0
        └── node_modules
            ├── foo -> <store>
            └── bar -> ../../bar@1.0.0/node_modules/bar
```

Next, direct dependencies are handled. `foo` is going to be symlinked into the
root `node_modules` folder because `foo` is a dependency of the project:

```text
node_modules
├── foo -> ./.pnpm/foo@1.0.0/node_modules/foo
└── .pnpm
    ├── bar@1.0.0
    │   └── node_modules
    │       └── bar -> <store>
    └── foo@1.0.0
        └── node_modules
            ├── foo -> <store>
            └── bar -> ../../bar@1.0.0/node_modules/bar
```

This is a very simple example. However, the layout will maintain this structure
regardless of the number of dependencies and the depth of the dependency graph.

Let's add `qar@2.0.0` as a dependency of `bar` and `foo`. This is how the new
structure will look:

```text
node_modules
├── foo -> ./.pnpm/foo@1.0.0/node_modules/foo
└── .pnpm
    ├── bar@1.0.0
    │   └── node_modules
    │       ├── bar -> <store>
    │       └── qar -> ../../qar@2.0.0/node_modules/qar
    ├── foo@1.0.0
    │   └── node_modules
    │       ├── foo -> <store>
    │       ├── bar -> ../../bar@1.0.0/node_modules/bar
    │       └── qar -> ../../qar@2.0.0/node_modules/qar
    └── qar@2.0.0
        └── node_modules
            └── qar -> <store>
```

As you may see, even though the graph is deeper now (`foo > bar > qar`), the
directory depth in the file system is still the same.

This layout might look weird at first glance, but it is completely compatible
with Node's module resolution algorithm! When resolving modules, Node ignores
symlinks, so when `bar` is required from `foo@1.0.0/node_modules/foo/index.js`,
Node does not use `bar` at `foo@1.0.0/node_modules/bar`, but instead, `bar` is
resolved to its real location (`bar@1.0.0/node_modules/bar`). As a consequence,
`bar` can also resolve its dependencies which are in `bar@1.0.0/node_modules`.

A great bonus of this layout is that only packages that are really in the
dependencies are accessible. With a flattened `node_modules` structure, all
hoisted packages are accessible. To read more about why this is an advantage,
see "[pnpm's strictness helps to avoid silly bugs][bugs]"

Unfortunately, many packages in the ecosystem are broken — they use dependencies that are not listed in their `package.json`. To minimize the number of issues new users encounter, pnpm hoists all dependencies by default into `node_modules/.pnpm/node_modules`. To disable this hoisting, set [hoist] to `false`.

[hoist]: settings.md#hoist

[bugs]: https://www.kochan.io/nodejs/pnpms-strictness-helps-to-avoid-silly-bugs.html
